docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/operate/metrics.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Metrics
:navtitle: Metrics

James relies on the https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.1.2/manual/core.html[Dropwizard metric library]
for keeping track of some core metrics of James.

Such metrics are made available via JMX. You can connect for instance using VisualVM and the associated
mbean plugins.

We also support displaying them via https://grafana.com/[Grafana]. Two methods can be used to back grafana display:

 - Prometheus metric collection - Data are exposed on a HTTP endpoint for Prometheus scrape.
 - ElasticSearch metric collection - This method is depreciated and will be removed in next version.
 
== Expose metrics for Prometheus collection

Metrics can be exposed over HTTP and made available by using ``extensions.routes`` in James https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/configure/webadmin.adoc[webadmin.properties] file:
....
extensions.routes=org.apache.james.webadmin.dropwizard.MetricsRoutes
....
You can test the result by accessing to: 
....
http://james_server:8000/metrics
....

== Running James with Prometheus

Make the below changes to scrape job config in ``prometheus.yml`` to collect the data for Grafana dashboard.
....
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # Set the scrape interval to every 15 seconds. Default is every 1 minute.
  evaluation_interval: 15s # Evaluate rules every 15 seconds. The default is every 1 minute.
  # scrape_timeout is set to the global default (10s).

alerting:
  alertmanagers:
  - static_configs:
    - targets:
      # - alertmanager:9093

rule_files:
  # - "first_rules.yml"
  # - "second_rules.yml"

scrape_configs:
  # The job name is added as a label `job=<job_name>` to any timeseries scraped from this config.
  - job_name: 'prometheus'
    scrape_interval: 5s
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9090']
  - job_name: 'Apache James'
    scrape_interval: 5s
    metrics_path: /metrics
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['james:8000']
....

You can download the dashboard json files and use https://grafana.com/tutorials/provision-dashboards-and-data-sources/[Grafana provision] to make the metrics datasource and dashboards available after container creation. [Insert link to Prometheus json files.]

Update the https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/conf/sample.ini[grafana.ini] configuration file in the ``/etc/grafana/grafana.ini`` to override default configuration options. You only need to change the provisioning folder path:

```
;provisioning = /etc/grafana/provisioning
```

Create the provisioning folder tree and copy all the dashboard json files to ``/provisioning/dashboards/james/``

    |-- provisioning
        |-- dashboards
            |-- defaults.yml
            |-- james
        |-- datasources
            |-- prometheus_ds.yml
        |-- notifiers
        |-- plugins
        
        
The following ``docker-compose.yml`` file will allow you to run a fresh prometheus/grafana montoring stack:

```
version: '3'

services:
  grafana:
    image: grafana/grafana:latest
    container_name: grafana
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    volumes: #Map your provision config to grafana container
      - /path/to/grafana.ini:/etc/grafana/grafana.ini
      - /path/to/grafana/provisioning:/etc/grafana/provisioning

  prometheus:
    image: prom/prometheus:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "9090:9090"
    volumes: #Map your scrape config to prometheus container.
      - ./conf/prometheus/prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml    
```

Once running, Prometheus datasource and dashboards will be ready on your Grafana. Datasource name should match with the name provided in dashboard json files. Or else you will have to edit Grafana dashboards afterward.

image::preload-dashboards.png[Pre-loaded dashboards]

== Available metrics

Here are the available metrics :

 - James JVM metrics
 - Number of active SMTP connections
 - Number of SMTP commands received
 - Number of active IMAP connections
 - Number of IMAP commands received
 - Number of active LMTP connections
 - Number of LMTP commands received
 - Number of per queue number of enqueued mails
 - Number of sent emails
 - Number of delivered emails
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for JMAP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for IMAP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for SMTP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for WebAdmin
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for each Mail Queue
 - Per mailet and per matcher Response time percentiles
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for DNS
 - Cassandra Java driver metrics
 - Tika HTTP client statistics
 - SpamAssassin TCP client statistics
 - Mailbox listeners statistics time percentiles
 - Mailbox listeners statistics requests rate
 - Pre-deletion hooks execution statistics time percentiles

== Available Grafana boards

Here are the various relevant Grafana boards for the Distributed Server:

- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/BlobStore-1543222647953-dashboard.json[BlobStore] :
Rates and percentiles for the BlobStore component
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/CacheBlobStore-15911761170000-dashboard.json[BlobStore Cache] :
Hit ratios and percentiles for the BlobStore Cache component. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Cassandra_driver-1504068385404-dashboard.json[Cassandra driver] :
Exposes some dashboard for the merics collected by the Cassandra driver, like request counts, and percentiles.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/DeletedMessagesVault-1563771591074-dashboard.json[Deleted Message Vault] :
Exposes metrics for the deleted message vault. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/JAMES_DNS_dashboard-1491268903944-dashboard.json[DNS] :
Latencies and query counts for DNS resolution.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/IMAP_board-1488774825351-dashboard.json[IMAP] :
Latencies for the IMAP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/IMAP_count_board-1488774815587-dashboard.json[IMAP counts] :
Request counts for the IMAP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/James_JVM-1504068360629-dashboard.json[JVM] :
JVM statistics (heap, gcs, etc...)
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MAILET-1490071694187-dashboard.json[Mailets] :
Per-mailet execution timings.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MATCHER-1490071813409-dashboard.json[Matchers] :
Per-matcher execution timings
-https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailQueue-1490071879988-dashboard.json[MailQueue] :
MailQueue statistics
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailboxListeners%20rate-1552903378376.json[MailboxListener rates] :
Mailbox events processing rate
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailboxListeners-1528958667486-dashboard.json[MailboxListener] :
Mailbox events processing latencies
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MessageFastViewProjection-1575520507952.json[MessageFastViewProjection] :
Hit ratio & latencies for the JMAP Message FastView projection
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Miscalleneous-1490072265151-dashboard.json[Miscalleneous] :
Collection of various metrics not included in other boards.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/PreDeletionHooks-1553684324244-dashboard.json[PreDeletionHooks] :
Latencies for PreDeletionHooks. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SMTP_board-1488774774172-dashboard.json[SMTP] :
SMTP latencies reports
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SMTP_count_board-1488774761350-dashboard.json[SMTP count] :
Request count for the SMTP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SpamAssassin-1522226824255-dashboard.json[SpamAssassin] :
Latencies for SpamAssassin Spam detection and feedback. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Tika-1522226794419-dashboard.json[Tika] :
   Latencies for Tika text extraction. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.

This is for instance how the JMAP dashboard looks like:

image::metrics.png[metrics for the JMAP protocol request latencies]

== Expose metrics for Elasticsearch collection

The following command allow you to run a fresh grafana server :

....
docker run -i -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
....

Once running, you need to set up an ElasticSearch data-source : - select
proxy mode - Select version 2.x of ElasticSearch - make the URL point
your ES node - Specify the index name. By default, it should be :

....
[james-metrics-]YYYY-MM
....

Import the different dashboards you want.

You then need to enable reporting through ElasticSearch. Modify your
James ElasticSearch configuration file accordingly. To help you doing
this, you can take a look to
https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra/destination/conf/elasticsearch.properties[elasticsearch.properties].

If some metrics seem abnormally slow despite in depth database
performance tuning, feedback is appreciated as well on the bug tracker,
the user mailing list or our Gitter channel (see our
http://james.apache.org/#second[community page]) . Any additional
details categorizing the slowness are appreciated as well (details of
the slow requests for instance).

Commit message:

Add sample yml file for grafana provisioning.

docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/operate/metrics.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Metrics
:navtitle: Metrics

James relies on the https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.1.2/manual/core.html[Dropwizard metric library]
for keeping track of some core metrics of James.

Such metrics are made available via JMX. You can connect for instance using VisualVM and the associated
mbean plugins.

We also support displaying them via https://grafana.com/[Grafana]. Two methods can be used to back grafana display:

 - Prometheus metric collection - Data are exposed on a HTTP endpoint for Prometheus scrape.
 - ElasticSearch metric collection - This method is depreciated and will be removed in next version.
 
== Expose metrics for Prometheus collection

Metrics can be exposed over HTTP and made available by using ``extensions.routes`` in James https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/configure/webadmin.adoc[webadmin.properties] file:
....
extensions.routes=org.apache.james.webadmin.dropwizard.MetricsRoutes
....
You can test the result by accessing to: 
....
http://james_server:8000/metrics
....

== Running James with Prometheus

Make the below changes to scrape job config in ``prometheus.yml`` to collect the data for Grafana dashboard.
....
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # Set the scrape interval to every 15 seconds. Default is every 1 minute.
  evaluation_interval: 15s # Evaluate rules every 15 seconds. The default is every 1 minute.
  # scrape_timeout is set to the global default (10s).

alerting:
  alertmanagers:
  - static_configs:
    - targets:
      # - alertmanager:9093

rule_files:
  # - "first_rules.yml"
  # - "second_rules.yml"

scrape_configs:
  # The job name is added as a label `job=<job_name>` to any timeseries scraped from this config.
  - job_name: 'prometheus'
    scrape_interval: 5s
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9090']
  - job_name: 'Apache James'
    scrape_interval: 5s
    metrics_path: /metrics
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['james:8000']
....

You can download the dashboard json files and use https://grafana.com/tutorials/provision-dashboards-and-data-sources/[Grafana provision] to make the metrics datasource and dashboards available after container creation. [Insert link to Prometheus json files.]

Update the https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/conf/sample.ini[grafana.ini] configuration file in the ``/etc/grafana/grafana.ini`` to override default configuration options. You only need to change the provisioning folder path:

```
;provisioning = /etc/grafana/provisioning
```

Create the provisioning folder tree and copy all the dashboard json files to ``/provisioning/dashboards/james/``

    |-- provisioning
        |-- dashboards
            |-- defaults.yml
            |-- james
        |-- datasources
            |-- prometheus_ds.yml
        |-- notifiers
        |-- plugins
        
Define the folder path for pre-load dashboard json files in `defaults.yml`:
```
apiVersion: 1

providers:
  - name: Default    # A uniquely identifiable name for the provider
    folder: Services # The folder where to place the dashboards
    type: file
    options:
      path:  /etc/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/james
```

Define the configuration for pre-load Prometheus datasource in `prometheus_ds.yml`:

```
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: prometheus
    type: prometheus
    url: http://prometheus_server_ip:9090
    editable: true
```    
    

Finally define volume mount for `grafana.ini` and provisioning folder path in ``docker-compose.yml`` and start prometheus/grafana montoring stack:

```
version: '3'

services:
  grafana:
    image: grafana/grafana:latest
    container_name: grafana
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    volumes: #Map your provision config to grafana container
      - /path/to/grafana.ini:/etc/grafana/grafana.ini
      - /path/to/grafana/provisioning:/etc/grafana/provisioning

  prometheus:
    image: prom/prometheus:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "9090:9090"
    volumes: #Map your scrape config to prometheus container.
      - ./conf/prometheus/prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml    
```

Once running, Prometheus datasource and dashboards will be ready on your Grafana. Datasource name should match with the name provided in dashboard json files. Or else you will have to edit Grafana dashboards afterward.

image::preload-dashboards.png[Pre-loaded dashboards]

*Note: For communication between multiple docker-compose projects, see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38088279/communication-between-multiple-docker-compose-projects[here] for example. An easier approach is to merge James and Metric docker-compose files together.

== Available metrics

Here are the available metrics :

 - James JVM metrics
 - Number of active SMTP connections
 - Number of SMTP commands received
 - Number of active IMAP connections
 - Number of IMAP commands received
 - Number of active LMTP connections
 - Number of LMTP commands received
 - Number of per queue number of enqueued mails
 - Number of sent emails
 - Number of delivered emails
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for JMAP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for IMAP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for SMTP
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for WebAdmin
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for each Mail Queue
 - Per mailet and per matcher Response time percentiles
 - Diverse Response time percentiles, counts and rates for DNS
 - Cassandra Java driver metrics
 - Tika HTTP client statistics
 - SpamAssassin TCP client statistics
 - Mailbox listeners statistics time percentiles
 - Mailbox listeners statistics requests rate
 - Pre-deletion hooks execution statistics time percentiles

== Available Grafana boards

Here are the various relevant Grafana boards for the Distributed Server:

- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/BlobStore-1543222647953-dashboard.json[BlobStore] :
Rates and percentiles for the BlobStore component
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/CacheBlobStore-15911761170000-dashboard.json[BlobStore Cache] :
Hit ratios and percentiles for the BlobStore Cache component. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Cassandra_driver-1504068385404-dashboard.json[Cassandra driver] :
Exposes some dashboard for the merics collected by the Cassandra driver, like request counts, and percentiles.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/DeletedMessagesVault-1563771591074-dashboard.json[Deleted Message Vault] :
Exposes metrics for the deleted message vault. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/JAMES_DNS_dashboard-1491268903944-dashboard.json[DNS] :
Latencies and query counts for DNS resolution.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/IMAP_board-1488774825351-dashboard.json[IMAP] :
Latencies for the IMAP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/IMAP_count_board-1488774815587-dashboard.json[IMAP counts] :
Request counts for the IMAP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/James_JVM-1504068360629-dashboard.json[JVM] :
JVM statistics (heap, gcs, etc...)
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MAILET-1490071694187-dashboard.json[Mailets] :
Per-mailet execution timings.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MATCHER-1490071813409-dashboard.json[Matchers] :
Per-matcher execution timings
-https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailQueue-1490071879988-dashboard.json[MailQueue] :
MailQueue statistics
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailboxListeners%20rate-1552903378376.json[MailboxListener rates] :
Mailbox events processing rate
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MailboxListeners-1528958667486-dashboard.json[MailboxListener] :
Mailbox events processing latencies
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/MessageFastViewProjection-1575520507952.json[MessageFastViewProjection] :
Hit ratio & latencies for the JMAP Message FastView projection
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Miscalleneous-1490072265151-dashboard.json[Miscalleneous] :
Collection of various metrics not included in other boards.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/PreDeletionHooks-1553684324244-dashboard.json[PreDeletionHooks] :
Latencies for PreDeletionHooks. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SMTP_board-1488774774172-dashboard.json[SMTP] :
SMTP latencies reports
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SMTP_count_board-1488774761350-dashboard.json[SMTP count] :
Request count for the SMTP protocol
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/SpamAssassin-1522226824255-dashboard.json[SpamAssassin] :
Latencies for SpamAssassin Spam detection and feedback. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.
- https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/grafana-reporting/Tika-1522226794419-dashboard.json[Tika] :
   Latencies for Tika text extraction. Note that this is relevant if this component is configured.

This is for instance how the JMAP dashboard looks like:

image::metrics.png[metrics for the JMAP protocol request latencies]

== Expose metrics for Elasticsearch collection

The following command allow you to run a fresh grafana server :

....
docker run -i -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
....

Once running, you need to set up an ElasticSearch data-source : - select
proxy mode - Select version 2.x of ElasticSearch - make the URL point
your ES node - Specify the index name. By default, it should be :

....
[james-metrics-]YYYY-MM
....

Import the different dashboards you want.

You then need to enable reporting through ElasticSearch. Modify your
James ElasticSearch configuration file accordingly. To help you doing
this, you can take a look to
https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra/destination/conf/elasticsearch.properties[elasticsearch.properties].

If some metrics seem abnormally slow despite in depth database
performance tuning, feedback is appreciated as well on the bug tracker,
the user mailing list or our Gitter channel (see our
http://james.apache.org/#second[community page]) . Any additional
details categorizing the slowness are appreciated as well (details of
the slow requests for instance).
