server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/configure/opensearch.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; opensearch.properties
:navtitle: opensearch.properties

Consult this link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/server/apps/distributed-app/sample-configuration/opensearch.properties[example]
to get some examples and hints.

If you want more explanation about OpenSearch configuration, you should visit the dedicated https://opensearch.org/[documentation].

== OpenSearch Configuration

This file section is used to configure the connection tp an OpenSearch cluster.

Here are the properties allowing to do so :

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.clusterName
| Is the name of the cluster used by James.

| opensearch.nb.shards
| Number of shards for index provisionned by James

| opensearch.nb.replica
| Number of replica for index provisionned by James (default: 0)

| opensearch.index.waitForActiveShards
| Wait for a certain number of active shard copies before proceeding with the operation. Defaults to 1.
You may consult the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docs-index_.html#active-shards[documentation] for more information.

| opensearch.retryConnection.maxRetries
| Number of retries when connecting the cluster

| opensearch.retryConnection.minDelay
| Minimum delay between connection attempts

| opensearch.max.connections
| Maximum count of HTTP connections allowed for the OpenSearch driver. Optional integer, if unspecified driver defaults
applies (30 connections).

| opensearch.max.connections.per.hosts
| Maximum count of HTTP connections per host allowed for the OpenSearch driver. Optional integer, if unspecified driver defaults
applies (10 connections).

|===

=== Mailbox search

The main use of OpenSearch within the Distributed Server is indexing the mailbox content of users in order to enable
powerful and efficient full-text search of the mailbox content.

Data indexing is performed asynchronously in a reliable fashion via a MailboxListener.

Here are the properties related to the use of OpenSearch for Mailbox Search:

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.index.mailbox.name
| Name of the mailbox index backed by the alias. It will be created if missing.

| opensearch.index.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.index.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the mailbox index backed by the alias. It will be created if missing.

| opensearch.alias.read.mailbox.name
| Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox reads. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.read.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.alias.read.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox reads. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.write.mailbox.name
| Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox writes. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.write.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.alias.write.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox writes. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.indexAttachments
| Indicates if you wish to index attachments or not (default: true).
|===

=== Quota search

Users are indexed by quota usage, allowing operators a quick audit of users quota occupation.

Users quota are asynchronously indexed upon quota changes via a dedicated MailboxListener.

The following properties affect quota search :

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.index.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for quotas

| opensearch.alias.read.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for reading quotas

| opensearch.alias.write.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for writing quotas
|===

=== Disabling OpenSearch

OpenSearch component can be disabled but consider it would make search feature to not work. In particular it will break JMAP protocol and SEARCH IMAP comment in an nondeterministic way.
This is controlled in the `search.properties` file via the `implementation` property (defaults
to `OpenSearch`). Setting this configuration parameter to `scanning` will effectively disable OpenSearch, no
further indexation will be done however searches will rely on the scrolling search, leading to expensive and longer
searches. Disabling OpenSearch requires no extra action, however
xref:operate/webadmin.adoc#_reindexing_all_mails[a full re-indexing]needs to be carried out when enabling OpenSearch.

== SSL Trusting Configuration

By default, James will use the system TrustStore to validate https server certificates, if the certificate on
ES side is already in the system TrustStore, you can leave the sslValidationStrategy property empty or set it to default.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.sslValidationStrategy
| Optional. Accept only *default*, *ignore*, *override*. Default is *default*. default: Use the default SSL TrustStore of the system.
ignore: Ignore SSL Validation check (not recommended).
override: Override the SSL Context to use a custom TrustStore containing ES server's certificate.

|===

In some cases, you want to secure the connection from clients to ES by setting up a *https* protocol
with a self signed certificate. And you prefer to left the system ca-certificates un touch.
There are possible solutions to let the ES RestHighLevelClient to trust your self signed certificate.

Second solution: importing a TrustStore containing the certificate into SSL context.
A certificate normally contains two parts: a public part in .crt file, another private part in .key file.
To trust the server, the client needs to be acknowledged that the server's certificate is in the list of
client's TrustStore. Basically, you can create a local TrustStore file containing the public part of a remote server
by execute this command:

....
keytool -import -v -trustcacerts -file certificatePublicFile.crt -keystore trustStoreFileName.jks -keypass fillThePassword -storepass fillThePassword
....

When there is a TrustStore file and the password to read, fill two options *trustStorePath*
and *trustStorePassword* with the TrustStore location and the password. ES client will accept
the certificate of ES service.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.trustStorePath
| Optional. Use it when https is configured in opensearch.hostScheme, and sslValidationStrategy is *override*
Configure OpenSearch rest client to use this trustStore file to recognize nginx's ssl certificate.
Once you chose *override*, you need to specify both trustStorePath and trustStorePassword.

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.trustStorePassword
| Optional. Use it when https is configured in opensearch.hostScheme, and sslValidationStrategy is *override*
Configure OpenSearch rest client to use this trustStore file with the specified password.
Once you chose *override*, you need to specify both trustStorePath and trustStorePassword.

|===

During SSL handshaking, the client can determine whether accept or reject connecting to a remote server by its hostname.
You can configure to use which HostNameVerifier in the client.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.hostNameVerifier
| Optional. Default is *default*. default: using the default hostname verifier provided by apache http client.
accept_any_hostname: accept any host (not recommended).

|===

== Search overrides

*Search overrides* allow resolution of predefined search queries against alternative sources of data
and allow bypassing OpenSearch. This is useful to handle most resynchronisation queries that
are simple enough to be resolved against Cassandra.

Possible values are:
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.AllSearchOverride` Some IMAP clients uses SEARCH ALL to fully list messages in
 a mailbox and detect deletions. This is typically done by clients not supporting QRESYNC and from an IMAP perspective
 is considered an optimisation as less data is transmitted compared to a FETCH command. Resolving such requests against
 Cassandra is enabled by this search override and likely desirable.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UidSearchOverride`. Same as above but restricted by ranges.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedSearchOverride`. Find deleted messages by looking up in the relevant Cassandra
 table.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedWithRangeSearchOverride`. Same as above but limited by ranges.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.NotDeletedWithRangeSearchOverride`. List non deleted messages in a given range.
 Lists all messages and filters out deleted message thus this is based on the following heuristic: most messages are not marked as deleted.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UnseenSearchOverride`. List unseen messages in the corresponding cassandra projection.

Please note that custom overrides can be defined here. `opensearch.search.overrides` allow specifying search overrides and is a
coma separated list of search override FQDNs. Default to none.

EG:

----
opensearch.search.overrides=org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.AllSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedSearchOverride, org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedWithRangeSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.NotDeletedWithRangeSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UidSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UnseenSearchOverride
----

== Configure dedicated language analyzers for mailbox index

OpenSearch supports various language analyzers out of the box: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-lang-analyzer.html.

James could utilize this to improve the user searching experience upon his language.

While one could modify mailbox index mapping programmatically to customize this behavior, here we should just document a manual way to archive this without breaking our common index' mapping code.

The idea is modifying mailbox index mappings with the target language analyzer as a JSON file, then submit it directly
to OpenSearch via cURL command to create the mailbox index before James start. Let's adapt dedicated language analyzers
where appropriate for the following fields:

.Language analyzers propose change
|===
| Field | Analyzer change

| from.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| subject
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| to.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| cc.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| bcc.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| textBody
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| htmlBody
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| attachments.fileName
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| attachments.textContent
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

|===

In there:

  - `keep_mail_and_url` and `standard` are our current analyzers for mailbox index.
  - `language_a` analyzer: the built-in analyzer of OpenSearch. EG: `french`
  - `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer: a custom of `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer with some language filters.Every language has
their own filters so please have a look at filters which your language need to add. EG which need to be added for French:
----
"filter": {
	"french_elision": {
		"type": "elision",
		"articles_case": true,
		"articles": [
			"l", "m", "t", "qu", "n", "s",
			"j", "d", "c", "jusqu", "quoiqu",
			"lorsqu", "puisqu"
		]
	},
	"french_stop": {
		"type": "stop",
		"stopwords": "_french_"
	},
	"french_stemmer": {
		"type": "stemmer",
		"language": "light_french"
	}
}
----

After modifying above proposed change, you should have a JSON file that contains new setting and mapping of mailbox index. Here
we provide https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/mailbox/opensearch/example_french_index.json[a sample JSON for French language].
If you want to customize that JSON file for your own language need, please make these modifications:

  - Replace the `french` analyzer with your built-in language (have a look at https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-lang-analyzer.html[built-in language analyzers])
  - Modify `keep_mail_and_url_french` analyzer' filters with your language filters, and customize the analyzer' name.

Please change also `number_of_shards`, `number_of_replicas` and `index.write.wait_for_active_shards` values in the sample file according to your need.

Run this cURL command with above JSON file to create `mailbox_v1` (Mailbox index' default name) index before James start:
----
curl -X PUT ES_IP:ES_PORT/mailbox_v1 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @example_french_index.json
----

Commit message:

JAMES-2080 Allow turning off header indexing in OpenSearch (#1516)
* JAMES-2080 Allow turning off header indexing in OpenSearch

Indicates if you wish to index headers or not (default: true).
Note that specific headers (From, To, Cc, Bcc, Subject,
Message-Id, Date, Content-Type) are still indexed in their
dedicated type. Header indexing is expensive as each header
currently need to be stored as a nested document but turning
off headers indexing result in non-strict compliance with the
IMAP / JMAP standards.

server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/configure/opensearch.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; opensearch.properties
:navtitle: opensearch.properties

Consult this link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/server/apps/distributed-app/sample-configuration/opensearch.properties[example]
to get some examples and hints.

If you want more explanation about OpenSearch configuration, you should visit the dedicated https://opensearch.org/[documentation].

== OpenSearch Configuration

This file section is used to configure the connection tp an OpenSearch cluster.

Here are the properties allowing to do so :

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.clusterName
| Is the name of the cluster used by James.

| opensearch.nb.shards
| Number of shards for index provisionned by James

| opensearch.nb.replica
| Number of replica for index provisionned by James (default: 0)

| opensearch.index.waitForActiveShards
| Wait for a certain number of active shard copies before proceeding with the operation. Defaults to 1.
You may consult the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docs-index_.html#active-shards[documentation] for more information.

| opensearch.retryConnection.maxRetries
| Number of retries when connecting the cluster

| opensearch.retryConnection.minDelay
| Minimum delay between connection attempts

| opensearch.max.connections
| Maximum count of HTTP connections allowed for the OpenSearch driver. Optional integer, if unspecified driver defaults
applies (30 connections).

| opensearch.max.connections.per.hosts
| Maximum count of HTTP connections per host allowed for the OpenSearch driver. Optional integer, if unspecified driver defaults
applies (10 connections).

|===

=== Mailbox search

The main use of OpenSearch within the Distributed Server is indexing the mailbox content of users in order to enable
powerful and efficient full-text search of the mailbox content.

Data indexing is performed asynchronously in a reliable fashion via a MailboxListener.

Here are the properties related to the use of OpenSearch for Mailbox Search:

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.index.mailbox.name
| Name of the mailbox index backed by the alias. It will be created if missing.

| opensearch.index.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.index.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the mailbox index backed by the alias. It will be created if missing.

| opensearch.alias.read.mailbox.name
| Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox reads. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.read.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.alias.read.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox reads. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.write.mailbox.name
| Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox writes. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.alias.write.name
| *Deprecated* Use *opensearch.alias.write.mailbox.name* instead.
Name of the alias to use by Apache James for mailbox writes. It will be created if missing.
The target of the alias is the index name configured above.

| opensearch.indexAttachments
| Indicates if you wish to index attachments or not (default: true).

| opensearch.indexHeaders
| Indicates if you wish to index headers or not (default: true). Note that specific headers
(From, To, Cc, Bcc, Subject, Message-Id, Date, Content-Type) are still indexed in their dedicated type.
Header indexing is expensive as each header currently need to be stored as a nested document but
turning off headers indexing result in non-strict compliance with the IMAP / JMAP standards.
|===

=== Quota search

Users are indexed by quota usage, allowing operators a quick audit of users quota occupation.

Users quota are asynchronously indexed upon quota changes via a dedicated MailboxListener.

The following properties affect quota search :

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.index.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for quotas

| opensearch.alias.read.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for reading quotas

| opensearch.alias.write.quota.ratio.name
| Specify the OpenSearch alias name used for writing quotas
|===

=== Disabling OpenSearch

OpenSearch component can be disabled but consider it would make search feature to not work. In particular it will break JMAP protocol and SEARCH IMAP comment in an nondeterministic way.
This is controlled in the `search.properties` file via the `implementation` property (defaults
to `OpenSearch`). Setting this configuration parameter to `scanning` will effectively disable OpenSearch, no
further indexation will be done however searches will rely on the scrolling search, leading to expensive and longer
searches. Disabling OpenSearch requires no extra action, however
xref:operate/webadmin.adoc#_reindexing_all_mails[a full re-indexing]needs to be carried out when enabling OpenSearch.

== SSL Trusting Configuration

By default, James will use the system TrustStore to validate https server certificates, if the certificate on
ES side is already in the system TrustStore, you can leave the sslValidationStrategy property empty or set it to default.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.sslValidationStrategy
| Optional. Accept only *default*, *ignore*, *override*. Default is *default*. default: Use the default SSL TrustStore of the system.
ignore: Ignore SSL Validation check (not recommended).
override: Override the SSL Context to use a custom TrustStore containing ES server's certificate.

|===

In some cases, you want to secure the connection from clients to ES by setting up a *https* protocol
with a self signed certificate. And you prefer to left the system ca-certificates un touch.
There are possible solutions to let the ES RestHighLevelClient to trust your self signed certificate.

Second solution: importing a TrustStore containing the certificate into SSL context.
A certificate normally contains two parts: a public part in .crt file, another private part in .key file.
To trust the server, the client needs to be acknowledged that the server's certificate is in the list of
client's TrustStore. Basically, you can create a local TrustStore file containing the public part of a remote server
by execute this command:

....
keytool -import -v -trustcacerts -file certificatePublicFile.crt -keystore trustStoreFileName.jks -keypass fillThePassword -storepass fillThePassword
....

When there is a TrustStore file and the password to read, fill two options *trustStorePath*
and *trustStorePassword* with the TrustStore location and the password. ES client will accept
the certificate of ES service.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.trustStorePath
| Optional. Use it when https is configured in opensearch.hostScheme, and sslValidationStrategy is *override*
Configure OpenSearch rest client to use this trustStore file to recognize nginx's ssl certificate.
Once you chose *override*, you need to specify both trustStorePath and trustStorePassword.

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.trustStorePassword
| Optional. Use it when https is configured in opensearch.hostScheme, and sslValidationStrategy is *override*
Configure OpenSearch rest client to use this trustStore file with the specified password.
Once you chose *override*, you need to specify both trustStorePath and trustStorePassword.

|===

During SSL handshaking, the client can determine whether accept or reject connecting to a remote server by its hostname.
You can configure to use which HostNameVerifier in the client.

.opensearch.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| opensearch.hostScheme.https.hostNameVerifier
| Optional. Default is *default*. default: using the default hostname verifier provided by apache http client.
accept_any_hostname: accept any host (not recommended).

|===

== Search overrides

*Search overrides* allow resolution of predefined search queries against alternative sources of data
and allow bypassing OpenSearch. This is useful to handle most resynchronisation queries that
are simple enough to be resolved against Cassandra.

Possible values are:
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.AllSearchOverride` Some IMAP clients uses SEARCH ALL to fully list messages in
 a mailbox and detect deletions. This is typically done by clients not supporting QRESYNC and from an IMAP perspective
 is considered an optimisation as less data is transmitted compared to a FETCH command. Resolving such requests against
 Cassandra is enabled by this search override and likely desirable.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UidSearchOverride`. Same as above but restricted by ranges.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedSearchOverride`. Find deleted messages by looking up in the relevant Cassandra
 table.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedWithRangeSearchOverride`. Same as above but limited by ranges.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.NotDeletedWithRangeSearchOverride`. List non deleted messages in a given range.
 Lists all messages and filters out deleted message thus this is based on the following heuristic: most messages are not marked as deleted.
  - `org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UnseenSearchOverride`. List unseen messages in the corresponding cassandra projection.

Please note that custom overrides can be defined here. `opensearch.search.overrides` allow specifying search overrides and is a
coma separated list of search override FQDNs. Default to none.

EG:

----
opensearch.search.overrides=org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.AllSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedSearchOverride, org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.DeletedWithRangeSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.NotDeletedWithRangeSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UidSearchOverride,org.apache.james.mailbox.cassandra.search.UnseenSearchOverride
----

== Configure dedicated language analyzers for mailbox index

OpenSearch supports various language analyzers out of the box: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-lang-analyzer.html.

James could utilize this to improve the user searching experience upon his language.

While one could modify mailbox index mapping programmatically to customize this behavior, here we should just document a manual way to archive this without breaking our common index' mapping code.

The idea is modifying mailbox index mappings with the target language analyzer as a JSON file, then submit it directly
to OpenSearch via cURL command to create the mailbox index before James start. Let's adapt dedicated language analyzers
where appropriate for the following fields:

.Language analyzers propose change
|===
| Field | Analyzer change

| from.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| subject
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| to.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| cc.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| bcc.name
| `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer -> `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer

| textBody
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| htmlBody
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| attachments.fileName
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

| attachments.textContent
| `standard` analyzer -> `language_a` analyzer

|===

In there:

  - `keep_mail_and_url` and `standard` are our current analyzers for mailbox index.
  - `language_a` analyzer: the built-in analyzer of OpenSearch. EG: `french`
  - `keep_mail_and_url_language_a` analyzer: a custom of `keep_mail_and_url` analyzer with some language filters.Every language has
their own filters so please have a look at filters which your language need to add. EG which need to be added for French:
----
"filter": {
	"french_elision": {
		"type": "elision",
		"articles_case": true,
		"articles": [
			"l", "m", "t", "qu", "n", "s",
			"j", "d", "c", "jusqu", "quoiqu",
			"lorsqu", "puisqu"
		]
	},
	"french_stop": {
		"type": "stop",
		"stopwords": "_french_"
	},
	"french_stemmer": {
		"type": "stemmer",
		"language": "light_french"
	}
}
----

After modifying above proposed change, you should have a JSON file that contains new setting and mapping of mailbox index. Here
we provide https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/mailbox/opensearch/example_french_index.json[a sample JSON for French language].
If you want to customize that JSON file for your own language need, please make these modifications:

  - Replace the `french` analyzer with your built-in language (have a look at https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-lang-analyzer.html[built-in language analyzers])
  - Modify `keep_mail_and_url_french` analyzer' filters with your language filters, and customize the analyzer' name.

Please change also `number_of_shards`, `number_of_replicas` and `index.write.wait_for_active_shards` values in the sample file according to your need.

Run this cURL command with above JSON file to create `mailbox_v1` (Mailbox index' default name) index before James start:
----
curl -X PUT ES_IP:ES_PORT/mailbox_v1 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @example_french_index.json
----
