docs/modules/servers/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Apache James Mail Servers
:navtitle: Servers

James offers a number of ready-made Mail Servers. The servers are intended 
for those with typcial use cases, and can be used out-of-the-box. These 
servers have been tested and verified so you can get set up quickly with 
a production-grade Mail Server that you can use with confidence.

The available James Servers are:

 * <<demo,James Demo Mail Server>>
 * <<local,James Local Mail Server>>
 * <<redundant,James Redundant Mail Server>>
 * <<distributed,James Distributed Mail Server>>


[#demo]
== James Demo Server
The xref:demo.adoc[James Server Demo] is intended for those who just want 
to give James a quick spin on their local machine.


[#local]
== James Local Mail Server

If you are not sure which server you should be using, then
you probably ought to be using the xref:local/index.adoc[*Local Server*].
This server uses the local file system to store emails, which tends
to considerably simplify the system. To safeguard your emails, you
only need a simple generic backup solution that works with a data
volume.

This server is intended to be the simplest to set up and use in production.
It has the least amount of dependencies and complexities. If you do not yet
have a huge amount of emails to process, then usually the simplicity is
well worth the loss of some functionality. The last thing you need is
to have to resolve difficult issues on a production server when you have not
yet acquired the requisite knowledge to deal with those issues. Using the
xref:local/index.adoc[*Local Server*] will help you reduce the risk of running into 
production issues.

This server is:

 * Suggested for use with smaller deployments
 * Appropriate for use by most operators
 * The preferred choice for most installations
 * Endowed with fewer dependencies, which makes it simpler and less risky to use in production
 * Only dependent on your local file system for data storage, so very easy to manage




[#redundant]
== James Redundant Mail Server

When your requirements start to get a little more serious 
(let's say in the tens of millions of emails), then you may want to
start to consider using the xref:redundant.adoc[*Redundant Server*].

This server provides data redundancy so that it can stay live at
all times, even in the rare case that your data gets corrupted.

This server is:

 * Intended for use by experienced operators only
 * Used for mid-sized to large deployments
 * More performant than the Minimal and Basic Server, but also more complex




[#distributed]
== James Distributed Mail Server 

The xref:distributed.adoc[*Distributed Server*] is a heavy-duty industrial 
enterprise mail server.

This server is:

 * Intended for use by experts only
 * Use for large-scale distributed deployments
 * The most feature-rich server, but also by far the most complex

Commit message:

JAMES-3187 Renamed "Local" to "Basic"

docs/modules/servers/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Apache James Mail Servers
:navtitle: Servers

James offers a number of ready-made Mail Servers. The servers are intended 
for those with typcial use cases, and can be used out-of-the-box. These 
servers have been tested and verified so you can get set up quickly with 
a production-grade Mail Server that you can use with confidence.

The available James Servers are:

 * <<demo,James Demo Mail Server>>
 * <<basic,James Basic Mail Server>>
 * <<redundant,James Redundant Mail Server>>
 * <<distributed,James Distributed Mail Server>>


[#demo]
== James Demo Server
The xref:demo.adoc[James Server Demo] is intended for those who just want 
to give James a quick spin on their local machine.


[#basic]
== James Basic Mail Server

If you are not sure which server you should be using, then
you probably ought to be using the xref:basic/index.adoc[*BasicServer*].
This server uses the local file system to store emails, which tends
to considerably simplify the system. To safeguard your emails, you
only need a simple generic backup solution that works with a data
volume.

This server is intended to be the simplest to set up and use in production.
It has the least amount of dependencies and complexities. If you do not yet
have a huge amount of emails to process, then usually the simplicity is
well worth the loss of some functionality. The last thing you need is
to have to resolve difficult issues on a production server when you have not
yet acquired the requisite knowledge to deal with those issues. Using the
xref:basic/index.adoc[*Basic Server*] will help you reduce the risk of running into 
production issues.

This server is:

 * Suggested for use with smaller deployments
 * Appropriate for use by most operators
 * The preferred choice for most installations
 * Endowed with fewer dependencies, which makes it simpler and less risky to use in production
 * Only dependent on your local file system for data storage, so very easy to manage




[#redundant]
== James Redundant Mail Server

When your requirements start to get a little more serious 
(let's say in the tens of millions of emails), then you may want to
start to consider using the xref:redundant.adoc[*Redundant Server*].

This server provides data redundancy so that it can stay live at
all times, even in the rare case that your data gets corrupted.

This server is:

 * Intended for use by experienced operators only
 * Used for mid-sized to large deployments
 * More performant than the Minimal and Basic Server, but also more complex




[#distributed]
== James Distributed Mail Server 

The xref:distributed.adoc[*Distributed Server*] is a heavy-duty industrial 
enterprise mail server.

This server is:

 * Intended for use by experts only
 * Use for large-scale distributed deployments
 * The most feature-rich server, but also by far the most complex
