---
layout: post
title:  "Apache IMAP 0.2-M1 released"
date:   2010-11-05 16:13:22 +0200
categories: james update
---

The Java Apache Mail Enterprise Server (a.k.a. Apache James) Project is happy to announce
the release of version 3.0-M1 (Milestone 1) of the Apache James server.

The Apache James Server is a 100% pure Java enterprise mail server based on open protocols.
Currently supported are SMTP/LMTP, POP3, IMAP4 protocols together with several different
storage solutions (relational database via JPA and JDBC, File system with MailDir, JCR Content Repsitory).

The James server also serves as a mail application platform. It hosts the Apache Mailet API,
and acts has a Mailet container. This feature makes it easy to design, write, and deploy custom applications for
mail processing. This modularity and ease of customization is one of James' strengths, and can allow administrators to
produce powerful applications surprisingly easily.

Features for that version include enhancements to nearly every area of functionality,
including full IMAP support, improved mailing list capabilities, fastfail support, SMTP API
for developing own fastfail filters and the next revision of the Mailet API.

This was an exciting time in James development and we thank all contributors.

We are still actively looking for eager, capable developers to contribute to James.
If you're interesting in contributing to the James project, please subscribe to the James
[mailing lists]: http://james.apache.org/mail.html.

Information about James can be found at the James web site
at [http://james.apache.org/][web].

[web]: http://james.apache.org/

