---
layout: post
title:  "Apache James Server 3.4.0"
date:   2019-09-05  15:16:30 +0200
categories: james update
---

The Apache James developers are pleased to announce James server 3.4.0 release.

Here are some points we worked on:

### Added
- Add in-memory docker image
- Support of AWS S3 as blobstore
- WebAdmin routes for mapping management (`AddAddressMapping`, `AddRegexMapping`, `ListMappings`), previously only manageable by CLI
- Metrics for Deleted Message Vault
- More metrics for BlobStore (new delete & deleteBucket configuration)

### Changed
- (experimental) New implementation of the deleted message vault on top of an object store, not relying anymore on a 
repository. This avoids exposing messages via webAdmin. Messages previously stored in the vault will be lost.
- Migration to ElasticSearch 6.3
- Blob export to LinShare
- Native DKIM support for outgoing mails. The mailets from james-jdkim have been included in main James project.

### Deprecated
- Zookeeper component. This will be removed after 3.4 release. If you have development skills, and are willing to maintain this component, please reach us.

### Removed
- Karaf OSGi implementation. It was not compiled nor tested for a year. We didn't get any feedback about that and we don't have the resources nor the skills to maintain it any more.

Early adopters can [download it][download], any issue can be reported on our issue [tracker][tracker].

[tracker]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/JAMES
[download]: http://james.apache.org/download.cgi#Apache_James_Server
