---
layout: post
title:  "Apache James Server 3.7.0"
date:   2022-03-21  01:16:30 +0200
categories: james update
---

The Apache James developers are pleased to announce James server 3.7.0 release.

Early adopters can [download it][download], any issue can be reported on our issue [tracker][tracker].

The Apache James PMC would like to thanks all contributors who made this release possible!

## Announcement

As of Apache James version 3.7.0 we removed support for maildir storage format. Users relying on maildir are encouraged 
to switch to other backends. Maildir can still be used as part of the 3.6.x release train.

## Most noticeable changes

The Apache James PMC is pleased to announce the additions of the following components/features in Apache James 3.7.0:

 - Multiple bug fixes. We hopefully significantly improved James overall stability.
 - Multiple performance enhancements. This new release ships a blazing fast server!
 - Multiple additions had been made to our [JMAP][JMAP] implementation including:
   - Implementation of RFC-9007 for composing MDN messages with JMAP
   - Support for JMAP integration with Web Push (RFC-8030), including encryption
   - Multiple additional JMAP methods: Email/import, Identity/set, etc...
   - Periodical cleanup of JMAP uploads
 - Ease TLS configuration by accepting PEM keys. This makes it easier to use Let's encrypt and certbot.
 - Task to delete unreferenced blobs when blob deduplication is enabled on top of the Distributed James server.
 - Use of PBKDF2 as a strong password-hashing algorithm
 - Allow disabling SMTP/IMAP plain auth for increased security
 - Addition of a James product dedicated to mail processing relying on Apache Pulsar for its mail queue (experimental)
 - Support for IMAP SASL OAUTH authentication mechanism. Used successfully with OIDC!
 - Extension for rate limiting upon email processing (memory and redis backend)

## Release changelog

The full changes included in this release can be seen in the [CHANGELOG][CHANGELOG].

[JMAP]: https://jmap.io
[CHANGELOG]: https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#362---2022-01-26
[tracker]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/JAMES
[download]: http://james.apache.org/download.cgi#Apache_James_Server
