docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/architecture/consistency-model.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Consistency Model
:navtitle: Consistency Model

This page presents the consistency model used by the Distributed Server and
points to the tools built around it.

== Data Replication

The Distributed Server relies on different storage technologies, all having their own
consistency models.

These data stores replicates data in order to enforce some level of availability. We call
this process replication. By consistency, we mean the ability for all replica to hold the
same data. By availability, we mean the ability for a replica to answer a request.

In distributed systems, link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem[according to the CAP theorem],
as we will necessarily encounter network partitions, then tradeoffs needs to be made between
consistency and availability.

This section details this tradeoff for data stores used by the Distributed Server.

=== Cassandra consistency model

link:https://cassandra.apache.org/[Cassandra] is an
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency[eventually consistent] data store.
This means that replica can hold diverging data, but are guaranteed to converge over time.

Several mechanisms are built in Cassandra to enforce this convergence, and needs to be
leveraged by *Distributed Server Administrator*. Namely
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/5.1/dse-admin/datastax_enterprise/tools/nodetool/toolsRepair.html[nodetool repair],
link:https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/hints.html[Hinted hand-off] and
link:https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/read_repair.html[Read repair].

The Distributed Server tries to mitigate inconsistencies by relying on
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/archived/cassandra/3.0/cassandra/dml/dmlConfigConsistency.html[QUORUM] read and write levels.
This means that a majority of replica are needed for read and write operations to be performed.

Critical business operations, like UID allocation, relies on strong consistency mechanism brought by
link:https://www.datastax.com/blog/2013/07/lightweight-transactions-cassandra-20[lightweight transaction].

==== About multi data-center setups

As strong consistency is required for some operations, and as lightweight transactions are
slow across data centers, running James with a
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/ddac/doc/datastax_enterprise/production/DDACmultiDCperWorkloadType.html[multi data-center]
Cassandra setup is discouraged.

However xref:distributed/configure/cassandra.adoc[this page] enables setting alternative read level,
which could be acceptable regarding limited requirements.

Running the Distributed Server in a multi datacenter setup will likely result either in data loss,
or very slow operations.

=== ElasticSearch consistency model

TODO

=== RabbitMQ consistency model

The Distributed Server relies out of the box on a single RabbitMQ server, thus consistency concerns
are not (yet) applicable. Availability concerns are applicable.

== Denormalization

In Cassandra, data needs to be structured to match the read patterns. To support several conflicting
read patterns, the data needs to be duplicated into different structures. This process is called
denormalization.

While data can be consistent at the table level, some inconsistencies can sneak in at the applicative
level across denormalization tables.

We write to a "table of truth" first, then duplicate the data to denormalization tables.

The Distributed server offers several mechanism to mitigate these inconsistencies:

 - Writes to denormalization tables are retried.
 - Some xref:distributed/operate/guide.adoc#_solving_cassandra_inconsistencies[SolveInconsistencies tasks] are exposed and are able to heal a given denormalization table.
They reset the "deduplication tables" content to the "table of truth" content.
 - link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/src/adr/0042-applicative-read-repairs.md[Read repairs],
when implemented for a given denormalization, enables auto-healing. When an inconsistency is detected, They reset the
"deduplication tables" entry to the "table of truth" entry.

== Consistency across data stores

TODO

=== Write path organisation

TODO

=== Cassandra <=> ElasticSearch

TODO

==== Asynchronous writes to other data stores

TODO

=== ReIndexing

TODO

Commit message:

JAMES-3406 About consistency across data stores

docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/architecture/consistency-model.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Consistency Model
:navtitle: Consistency Model

This page presents the consistency model used by the Distributed Server and
points to the tools built around it.

== Data Replication

The Distributed Server relies on different storage technologies, all having their own
consistency models.

These data stores replicate data in order to enforce some level of availability. We call
this process replication. By consistency, we mean the ability for all replica to hold the
same data. By availability, we mean the ability for a replica to answer a request.

In distributed systems, link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem[according to the CAP theorem],
as we will necessarily encounter network partitions, then trade-offs need to be made between
consistency and availability.

This section details this trade-off for data stores used by the Distributed Server.

=== Cassandra consistency model

link:https://cassandra.apache.org/[Cassandra] is an
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency[eventually consistent] data store.
This means that replica can hold diverging data, but are guaranteed to converge over time.

Several mechanisms are built in Cassandra to enforce this convergence, and need to be
leveraged by *Distributed Server Administrator*. Namely
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/5.1/dse-admin/datastax_enterprise/tools/nodetool/toolsRepair.html[nodetool repair],
link:https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/hints.html[Hinted hand-off] and
link:https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/read_repair.html[Read repair].

The Distributed Server tries to mitigate inconsistencies by relying on
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/archived/cassandra/3.0/cassandra/dml/dmlConfigConsistency.html[QUORUM] read and write levels.
This means that a majority of replica are needed for read and write operations to be performed.

Critical business operations, like UID allocation, rely on strong consistency mechanisms brought by
link:https://www.datastax.com/blog/2013/07/lightweight-transactions-cassandra-20[lightweight transaction].

==== About multi data-center setups

As strong consistency is required for some operations, and as lightweight transactions are
slow across data centers, running James with a
link:https://docs.datastax.com/en/ddac/doc/datastax_enterprise/production/DDACmultiDCperWorkloadType.html[multi data-center]
Cassandra setup is discouraged.

However xref:distributed/configure/cassandra.adoc[this page] enables setting alternative read level,
which could be acceptable regarding limited requirements.

Running the Distributed Server in a multi datacenter setup will likely result either in data loss,
or very slow operations.

=== ElasticSearch consistency model

TODO

=== RabbitMQ consistency model

The Distributed Server relies out of the box on a single RabbitMQ server, thus consistency concerns
are not (yet) applicable. Availability concerns are applicable.

== Denormalization

In Cassandra, data needs to be structured to match the read patterns. To support several conflicting
read patterns, the data needs to be duplicated into different structures. This process is called
denormalization.

While data can be consistent at the table level, some inconsistencies can sneak in at the applicative
level across denormalization tables.

We write to a "table of truth" first, then duplicate the data to denormalization tables.

The Distributed server offers several mechanisms to mitigate these inconsistencies:

 - Writes to denormalization tables are retried.
 - Some xref:distributed/operate/guide.adoc#_solving_cassandra_inconsistencies[SolveInconsistencies tasks] are exposed and are able to heal a given denormalization table.
They reset the "deduplication tables" content to the "table of truth" content.
 - link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/src/adr/0042-applicative-read-repairs.md[Read repairs],
when implemented for a given denormalization, enables auto-healing. When an inconsistency is detected, They reset the
"deduplication tables" entry to the "table of truth" entry.

== Consistency across data stores

The Distributed Server leverages several data stores:

 - Cassandra is used for metadata storage
 - ElasticSearch for search
 - Object Storage for large object storage

Thus the Distributed Server also offers mechanisms to enforce consistency across data stores.

=== Write path organisation

The primary data stores are composed of Cassandra for metadata and Object storage for binary data.

To ensure the data referenced in Cassandra is pointing to a valid object in the object store, we write
the object store payload first, then write the corresponding metadata in Cassandra.

Such a procedure avoids metadata pointing to unexisting blobs, however might lead to some unreferenced
blobs.

=== Cassandra <=> ElasticSearch

After being written to the primary stores (namely Cassandra & Object Storage), email content is
asynchronously indexed into ElasticSearch.

This process, called the EventBus, which retries temporary errors, and stores transient errors for
later admin-triggered retries is described further xref:distributed/operate/guide.adoc#_mailbox_event_bus[here].
His role is to spread load and limit inconsistencies.

Furthermore, some xref:distributed/operate/guide.adoc#_usual_troubleshooting_procedures[re-indexing tasks]
enables to re-synchronise ElasticSearch content with the primary data stores
