server/apps/jpa-app/README.adoc, before:

= Guice-JPA Server How-to

This server target single node James deployments. By default, the derby database is used.

== Requirements

 * Java 11 SDK

== Running

To run james, you have to create a directory containing required configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working directory that is called
**conf**. A [sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/container/guice/jpa-guice/sample-configuration)
is provided with some default values you may need to replace. You will need to update its content to match your needs.

You also need to generate a keystore with the following command:

[source]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source]
----
$ java -javaagent:james-server-jpa-app.lib/openjpa-3.1.2.jar \
  -Dworking.directory=. \
  -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 \
  -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml \
  -jar james-server-jpa-app.jar
----

Note that binding ports below 1024 requires administrative rights.

== Docker distribution

To import the image locally:

[source]
----
docker image load -i target/jib-image.tar
----

Then run it:

[source]
----
docker run apache/james:jpa-latest
----

Use the [JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS environment option](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib/blob/master/docs/faq.md#jvm-flags)
to pass extra JVM flags. For instance:

[source]
----
docker run -e "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-Xmx500m -Xms500m" apache/james:jpa-latest
----

For security reasons you are required to generate your own keystore, that you can mount into the container via a volume:

[source]
----
keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore keystore
docker run -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore apache/james:jpa-latest
----

[Glowroot APM](https://glowroot.org/) is packaged as part of the docker distribution to easily enable valuable performances insights.
Disabled by default, its java agent can easily be enabled:


[source]
----
docker run -e "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/root/glowroot.jar" apache/james:jpa-latest
----

The [CLI](https://james.apache.org/server/manage-cli.html) can easily be used:


[source]
----
docker exec CONTAINER-ID james-cli ListDomains
----

Note that you can create a domain via an environment variable. This domain will be created upon James start:

[source]
----
--environment DOMAIN=domain.tld
----


=== Using alternative JDBC drivers

==== Using alternative JDBC drivers with the ZIP package

We will need to add the driver JAR on the classpath.

This can be done with the following command:

....
java \
   -javaagent:james-server-jpa-app.lib/openjpa-3.2.0.jar \
   -Dworking.directory=. \
   -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 \
   -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml \
   -cp "james-server-jpa-app.jar:james-server-jpa-app.lib/*:jdbc-driver.jar" \
   org.apache.james.JPAJamesServerMain
....

With `jdbc-driver.jar` being the JAR file of your driver, placed in the current directory.

==== Using alternative JDBC drivers with docker

In `james-database.properties`, one can specify any JDBC driver on the class path.

With docker, such drivers can be added to the classpath by placing the driver JAR in a volume
and mounting it within `/root/libs` directory.

We do ship a [docker-compose](https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/server/apps/jpa-smtp-app/docker-compose.yml)
file demonstrating James JPA app usage with MariaDB. In order to run it:

....
# 1. Download the driver:
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/mariadb/jdbc/mariadb-java-client/2.7.2/mariadb-java-client-2.7.2.jar

# 2. Generate the keystore with the default password `james72laBalle`:
keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore keystore

# 3. Start MariaDB
docker-compose up -d mariadb

# 4. Start James
docker-compose up james
....

Commit message:

fixup! JAMES-3902 Document for `--generate-keystore` argument & update correct docker run command

server/apps/jpa-app/README.adoc, after:

= Guice-JPA Server How-to

This server target single node James deployments. By default, the derby database is used.

== Requirements

 * Java 11 SDK

== Running

To run james, you have to create a directory containing required configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working directory that is called
**conf**. A [sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/container/guice/jpa-guice/sample-configuration)
is provided with some default values you may need to replace. You will need to update its content to match your needs.

You also need to generate a keystore with the following command:

[source]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source]
----
$ java -javaagent:james-server-jpa-app.lib/openjpa-3.1.2.jar \
  -Dworking.directory=. \
  -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 \
  -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml \
  -jar james-server-jpa-app.jar
----

Note that binding ports below 1024 requires administrative rights.

== Docker distribution

To import the image locally:

[source]
----
docker image load -i target/jib-image.tar
----

Then run it:

[source]
----
docker run apache/james:jpa-latest
----

Use the [JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS environment option](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib/blob/master/docs/faq.md#jvm-flags)
to pass extra JVM flags. For instance:

[source]
----
docker run -e "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-Xmx500m -Xms500m" apache/james:jpa-latest
----

For security reasons you are required to generate your own keystore, that you can mount into the container via a volume:

[source]
----
keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore keystore
docker run -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore apache/james:jpa-latest
----

In the case of quick start James without manually creating a keystore (e.g. for development), just input the command argument `--generate-keystore` when running,
James will auto-generate keystore file with the default setting that is declared in `jmap.properties` (tls.keystoreURL, tls.secret)

[source]
----
docker run --network james apache/james:jpa-latest --generate-keystore
----

[Glowroot APM](https://glowroot.org/) is packaged as part of the docker distribution to easily enable valuable performances insights.
Disabled by default, its java agent can easily be enabled:


[source]
----
docker run -e "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/root/glowroot.jar" apache/james:jpa-latest
----

The [CLI](https://james.apache.org/server/manage-cli.html) can easily be used:


[source]
----
docker exec CONTAINER-ID james-cli ListDomains
----

Note that you can create a domain via an environment variable. This domain will be created upon James start:

[source]
----
--environment DOMAIN=domain.tld
----


=== Using alternative JDBC drivers

==== Using alternative JDBC drivers with the ZIP package

We will need to add the driver JAR on the classpath.

This can be done with the following command:

....
java \
   -javaagent:james-server-jpa-app.lib/openjpa-3.2.0.jar \
   -Dworking.directory=. \
   -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 \
   -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml \
   -cp "james-server-jpa-app.jar:james-server-jpa-app.lib/*:jdbc-driver.jar" \
   org.apache.james.JPAJamesServerMain
....

With `jdbc-driver.jar` being the JAR file of your driver, placed in the current directory.

==== Using alternative JDBC drivers with docker

In `james-database.properties`, one can specify any JDBC driver on the class path.

With docker, such drivers can be added to the classpath by placing the driver JAR in a volume
and mounting it within `/root/libs` directory.

We do ship a [docker-compose](https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/server/apps/jpa-smtp-app/docker-compose.yml)
file demonstrating James JPA app usage with MariaDB. In order to run it:

....
# 1. Download the driver:
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/mariadb/jdbc/mariadb-java-client/2.7.2/mariadb-java-client-2.7.2.jar

# 2. Generate the keystore with the default password `james72laBalle`:
keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore keystore

# 3. Start MariaDB
docker-compose up -d mariadb

# 4. Start James
docker-compose up james
....
