docs/modules/concepts/pages/storage/mailbox.adoc, before:

= Mailboxes
:navtitle: Mailboxes

== Overview

To (over)use the analogy once again of a postal system, we think of a mailbox
as a place where a letter is placed to await pickup by its recipient. Although
current methods have evolved considerably, the original idea used for the development
of email was exactly that. The concept <<RFC196,has been around officially>> since
at least 1971. The image of a mailbox is so prevalent that, although current
systems have evolved to do so much more than just hold messages for processing,
the industry continues to apply the concept.

The more general term is "Email Storage". It is necessary to store email for
many reasons:

 * As a mailbox system &mdash; part of a queue to await processing
 * As a persistance mechanism &mdash; a place where you can go back and predictably
    locate a message that you may want to refer to again in the future
 * As an archive &mdash; a place where you may want to store "deleted" emails so that
    you can potentially retrieve them if you wish to change your mind later
 * As a temporary step in a process &mdash; perhaps you have a "todo" folder where
    you temporarily store an email that you intend to process soon

There are numerous ways to store emails, just as there are numerous reasons for
storing them:

 * A <<Specifications,standardized>> "mailbox" format
 * A relational database
 * A custom file-based mechanism
 * Etc.

This section briefly describes how email storage is a core concept in an
email system.



== Specifications

=== Electronic Mail Box

==== RFC196

The concept of an "electronic mail box" was 
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc196[initially specified] way back in 1971.
It is amusing to read the retro concepts in the initial description of this
document:

  The purpose of this protocol is to provide at each site a
  standard mechanism to receive sequential files for immediate or
  deferred printing or other uses.  The files for deferred printing
  would probably be stored on intermediate disk files [...].
  It is also assumed that there would be a program at the sending
  site [...]. This program could probably be accessed as a subcommand 
  of the Telnet program.

This specification was obsoleted by <<RFC221>>.


==== RFC221

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc221[RFC221] ("A Mail Box Protocol, Version-2") was
published in 1971. It added the possibility of using FTP in addition to the
"Data Transfer Protocol" used in <<RFC196>>. This version was obsoleted by
<<RFC278>>.



==== RFC278

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc278[RFC278] ("Revision of the Mail Box Protocol")
was published in 1971. It provided a number of updates to <<RFC221>>.



=== Maildir

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maildir[Maildir] is a file-based storage format invented
by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_J._Bernstein[Dan Bernstein].
A major design objective was apparently to delegate file locking to the operating system.



=== Mbox

The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbox[mbox] email storage format was formally defined
by https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4155[RFC4155]. It is a formalization of a _de facto_
format used by UNIX-like operating systems.



=== MIX

The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIX_(email)[MIX] email storage format was developed by
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Crispin[Mark Crispin], the original author of the
xref:protocols/imap.adoc[IMAP specification]. Its
https://www.mail-archive.com/imap-uw@u.washington.edu/msg00540.html[design goals] were:

* greater robustness against corruption caused by hardware or
   software failures.  Many failures are "self-healing".
* far fewer risky random-access I/O operations; a single false
   pointer calculation in other formats will corrupt the mailbox.
* greater ease to repair damaged mailboxes.
* (much) greater performance.
* extensibility for new IMAP capabilities such as annotations,
   conditional store, or more aggressing caching.


=== RFC5322

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5322[RFC5322] weighs in on how to describe a "mailbox":

   A mailbox receives mail. It is a 'conceptual entity' that does not necessarily 
   pertain to file storage. It further exemplifies that some sites may choose to 
   print mail on a printer and deliver the output to the addressee's desk, much 
   like a traditional fax transmission.



== Related Concepts

Email Storage is related to...

 * *xref:protocols/pop.adoc[POP]*, as the POP protocol mandates interaction
   with a user's "mailbox"
 * *xref:protocols/imap.adoc[IMAP]*, as the IMAP protocol is all about storing
   messages on an IMAP Server
 * *xref:glossary.adoc#email_client[Email clients]*, as the client will store mail locally, usually in the form
   of a "mailbox"
 * *xref:protocols/smtp.adoc[SMTP]* as the protocol is related to transmitting
   messages from one mailbox to another

Commit message:

JAMES-3187 Moved content relating to indexing as suggested by @chibenwa

docs/modules/concepts/pages/storage/mailbox.adoc, after:

= Mailboxes
:navtitle: Mailboxes

== Overview

To (over)use the analogy once again of a postal system, we think of a mailbox
as a place where a letter is placed to await pickup by its recipient. Although
current methods have evolved considerably, the original idea used for the development
of email was exactly that. The concept <<RFC196,has been around officially>> since
at least 1971. The image of a mailbox is so prevalent that, although current
systems have evolved to do so much more than just hold messages for processing,
the industry continues to apply the concept.

The more general term is "Email Storage". It is necessary to store email for
many reasons:

 * As a mailbox system &mdash; part of a queue to await processing
 * As a persistance mechanism &mdash; a place where you can go back and predictably
    locate a message that you may want to refer to again in the future
 * As an archive &mdash; a place where you may want to store "deleted" emails so that
    you can potentially retrieve them if you wish to change your mind later
 * As a temporary step in a process &mdash; perhaps you have a "todo" folder where
    you temporarily store an email that you intend to process soon

There are numerous ways to store emails, just as there are numerous reasons for
storing them:

 * A <<Specifications,standardized>> "mailbox" format
 * A relational database
 * A custom file-based mechanism
 * Etc.

This section briefly describes how email storage is a core concept in an
email system.



== Specifications

=== Electronic Mail Box

==== RFC196

The concept of an "electronic mail box" was 
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc196[initially specified] way back in 1971.
It is amusing to read the retro concepts in the initial description of this
document:

  The purpose of this protocol is to provide at each site a
  standard mechanism to receive sequential files for immediate or
  deferred printing or other uses.  The files for deferred printing
  would probably be stored on intermediate disk files [...].
  It is also assumed that there would be a program at the sending
  site [...]. This program could probably be accessed as a subcommand 
  of the Telnet program.

This specification was obsoleted by <<RFC221>>.


==== RFC221

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc221[RFC221] ("A Mail Box Protocol, Version-2") was
published in 1971. It added the possibility of using FTP in addition to the
"Data Transfer Protocol" used in <<RFC196>>. This version was obsoleted by
<<RFC278>>.



==== RFC278

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc278[RFC278] ("Revision of the Mail Box Protocol")
was published in 1971. It provided a number of updates to <<RFC221>>.



=== Maildir

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maildir[Maildir] is a file-based storage format invented
by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_J._Bernstein[Dan Bernstein].
A major design objective was apparently to delegate file locking to the operating system.



=== Mbox

The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbox[mbox] email storage format was formally defined
by https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4155[RFC4155]. It is a formalization of a _de facto_
format used by UNIX-like operating systems.



=== MIX

The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIX_(email)[MIX] email storage format was developed by
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Crispin[Mark Crispin], the original author of the
xref:protocols/imap.adoc[IMAP specification]. Its
https://www.mail-archive.com/imap-uw@u.washington.edu/msg00540.html[design goals] were:

* greater robustness against corruption caused by hardware or
   software failures.  Many failures are "self-healing".
* far fewer risky random-access I/O operations; a single false
   pointer calculation in other formats will corrupt the mailbox.
* greater ease to repair damaged mailboxes.
* (much) greater performance.
* extensibility for new IMAP capabilities such as annotations,
   conditional store, or more aggressing caching.


=== RFC5322

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5322[RFC5322] weighs in on how to describe a "mailbox":

   A mailbox receives mail. It is a 'conceptual entity' that does not necessarily 
   pertain to file storage. It further exemplifies that some sites may choose to 
   print mail on a printer and deliver the output to the addressee's desk, much 
   like a traditional fax transmission.


== Indexing

// "Repository" should be "Diretory". See JAMES-3360.
Once a system grows over time it will likely contain many messages
stored in its xref:storage/mailbox.adoc[Mailboxes].
Searching for the right email becomes increasingly difficult. At some point
it becomes useful to use an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Search_engine_indexing[indexing]


== Related Concepts

Email Storage is related to...

 * *xref:protocols/pop.adoc[POP]*, as the POP protocol mandates interaction
   with a user's "mailbox"
 * *xref:protocols/imap.adoc[IMAP]*, as the IMAP protocol is all about storing
   messages on an IMAP Server
 * *xref:glossary.adoc#email_client[Email clients]*, as the client will store mail locally, usually in the form
   of a "mailbox"
 * *xref:protocols/smtp.adoc[SMTP]* as the protocol is related to transmitting
   messages from one mailbox to another
