docs/modules/concepts/pages/storage/users.adoc, before:

= User Directory
:navtitle: Users

== Overview

Whereas xref:storage/mailbox.adoc[mailboxes] are clearly a core component of
any email system, user management is a lighter shade of gray.

On the one hand, mailboxes ought to match up with actual users, so there is
a clear relationship between mailbox management and user management.
Because of this relationship, it is not at all strange to include a user directory
directly within an email system.

However, on the other hand email is only one of many applications that require
user management. It is therefore also completely reasonable to use some kind of
centralized user directory, and ensure that mailboxes somehow synchronize with
this external system.

The former case is much simpler to manage, but requires duplicate and therefore
unproductive work. The latter case can become quite complex from a technological 
perspective (and all the risks that are associated with it), but reduces the
amount of unproductive work.

== Common Operations

Because the user directory is used in the context of managing mailboxes, there
are some operations that are relatively common to any email system.

=== Domain Management

A mailbox belongs to a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_name[domain]. For a mail
system that can process multiple domains, the system will usually have operations to:

* List available domains
* Add a domain
* Remove a domain


=== User Management

A User has at least one mail box, and will usually have a canonical mailbox
that matches the user's identity in the system.
For each domain that is managed by the system, it is common to be able to:

* List all users for the domain
* Add a user
* Remove user 


=== Other Common Operations

It is common to allow user's to have one or more
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_alias[aliases].

Some systems provide an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoresponder[autoresponder]
(or "vacation") facility to its users.

An email system may provide the ability to https://james.apache.org/jsieve/[filter]
messages.

Commit message:

JAMES-3187 Changed "Directory" to "Repository" for consistency, and filed related issue JAMES-3360

docs/modules/concepts/pages/storage/users.adoc, after:

= User Repository
:navtitle: Users

== Overview

Whereas xref:storage/mailbox.adoc[mailboxes] are clearly a core component of
any email system, user management is a lighter shade of gray.

// "Repository" should be "Diretory". See JAMES-3360.
On the one hand, mailboxes ought to match up with actual users, so there is
a clear relationship between mailbox management and user management.
Because of this relationship, it is not at all strange to include a user respository
within an email system.

However, on the other hand email is only one of many applications that require
user management. It is therefore also completely reasonable to use some kind of
centralized user directory, and ensure that mailboxes somehow synchronize with
this external system.

The former case is much simpler to manage, but requires duplicate and therefore
unproductive work. The latter case can become quite complex from a technological 
perspective (and all the risks that are associated with it), but reduces the
amount of unproductive work.

== Common Operations

// "Repository" should be "Diretory". See JAMES-3360.
Because the user repository is used in the context of managing mailboxes, there
are some operations that are relatively common to any email system.

=== Domain Management

A mailbox belongs to a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_name[domain]. For a mail
system that can process multiple domains, the system will usually have operations to:

* List available domains
* Add a domain
* Remove a domain


=== User Management

A User has at least one mail box, and will usually have a canonical mailbox
that matches the user's identity in the system.
For each domain that is managed by the system, it is common to be able to:

* List all users for the domain
* Add a user
* Remove user 


=== Other Common Operations

It is common to allow user's to have one or more
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_alias[aliases].

Some systems provide an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoresponder[autoresponder]
(or "vacation") facility to its users.

An email system may provide the ability to https://james.apache.org/jsieve/[filter]
messages.
