docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/configure/jmap.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; jmap.properties
:navtitle: jmap.properties

https://jmap.io/[JMAP]  is intended to be a new standard for email clients to connect to mail
stores. It therefore intends to primarily replace IMAP + SMTP submission. It is also designed to be more
generic. It does not replace MTA-to-MTA SMTP transmission.

Consult this link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf/jmap.properties[example]
to get some examples and hints.

.jmap.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| enabled
| true/false. Governs whether JMAP should be enabled

| jmap.port
| Optional. Defaults to 80. The port this server will be listening on. This value must be a valid
port, ranging between 1 and 65535 (inclusive)

| tls.keystoreURL
| Keystore to be used for generating authentication tokens for password authentication mechanism.
This should not be the same keystore than the ones used by TLS based protocols.

| tls.secret
| Password used to read the keystore

| jwt.publickeypem.url
| Optional. JWT tokens allow request to bypass authentication

| url.prefix
| Optional. Configuration urlPrefix for JMAP routes.
| Default value: http://localhost.

| upload.max.size
| Optional. Configuration max size Upload in new JMAP-RFC-8621.
| Default value: 30M. Supported units are B (bytes) K (KB) M (MB) G (GB).

| view.email.query.enabled
| Optional boolean. Defaults to false.
| Should simple Email/query be resolved against a Cassandra projection, or should we resolve them against ElasticSearch?
This enables a higher resilience, but the projection needs to be correctly populated.

| jmap.version.default
| Optional string. Defaults to draft. Allowed values: draft, rfc-8621.
| Which version of the JMAP protocol should be served when none supplied in the Accept header.
Defaults to draft for legacy reasons (avoid breaking changes) but setting the value to
rfc-8621 allow compatibility with other third party apps.

|===

== Wire tapping

Enabling *TRACE* on `org.apache.james.jmap.wire` enables reactor-netty wiretap, logging of
all incoming and outgoing requests, outgoing requests. This will log also potentially sensible information
like authentication credentials.

== Generating a JWT key pair

The Distributed server enforces the use of RSA-SHA-256.

One can use OpenSSL to generate a JWT key pair :

    # private key
    openssl genrsa -out rs256-4096-private.rsa 4096
    # public key
    openssl rsa -in rs256-4096-private.rsa -pubout > rs256-4096-public.pem

The private key can be used to generate JWT tokens, for instance
using link:https://github.com/vandium-io/jwtgen[jwtgen]:

    jwtgen -a RS256 -p rs256-4096-private.rsa 4096 -c "sub=bob@domain.tld" -e 3600 -V

This token can then be passed as `Bearer` of the `Authorization` header :

    curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:80/jmap -d '...'

The public key can be referenced as `jwt.publickeypem.url` of the `jmap.properties` configuration file.

== Annotated specification

The [annotated documentation](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/protocols/jmap-rfc-8621/doc/specs/spec)
presents the limits of the JMAP RFC-8621 implementation part of the Apache James project. We furthermore implement
[JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) Subprotocol for WebSocket](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8887).

Some methods / types are not yet implemented, some implementations are naive, and the PUSH is not supported yet.

Users are invited to read these limitations before using actively the JMAP RFC-8621 implementation, and should ensure their
client applications only uses supported operations.

Contributions enhancing support are furthermore welcomed.

The list of tested JMAP clients are:

 - [OpenPaaS](https://open-paas.org/) is actively using the draft version of the JMAP implementation. Migration to
 RFC-8621 is planned.
 - Experiments had been run on top of [LTT.RS](https://github.com/iNPUTmice/lttrs-android). Version in the Accept
 headers needs to be explicitly set to `rfc-8621`. [Read more](https://github.com/linagora/james-project/pull/4089).

Commit message:

JAMES-3559 POC: Document JMAP window push notifications

docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/configure/jmap.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; jmap.properties
:navtitle: jmap.properties

https://jmap.io/[JMAP]  is intended to be a new standard for email clients to connect to mail
stores. It therefore intends to primarily replace IMAP + SMTP submission. It is also designed to be more
generic. It does not replace MTA-to-MTA SMTP transmission.

Consult this link:https://github.com/apache/james-project/blob/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf/jmap.properties[example]
to get some examples and hints.

.jmap.properties content
|===
| Property name | explanation

| enabled
| true/false. Governs whether JMAP should be enabled

| jmap.port
| Optional. Defaults to 80. The port this server will be listening on. This value must be a valid
port, ranging between 1 and 65535 (inclusive)

| tls.keystoreURL
| Keystore to be used for generating authentication tokens for password authentication mechanism.
This should not be the same keystore than the ones used by TLS based protocols.

| tls.secret
| Password used to read the keystore

| jwt.publickeypem.url
| Optional. JWT tokens allow request to bypass authentication

| url.prefix
| Optional. Configuration urlPrefix for JMAP routes.
| Default value: http://localhost.

| upload.max.size
| Optional. Configuration max size Upload in new JMAP-RFC-8621.
| Default value: 30M. Supported units are B (bytes) K (KB) M (MB) G (GB).

| view.email.query.enabled
| Optional boolean. Defaults to false.
| Should simple Email/query be resolved against a Cassandra projection, or should we resolve them against ElasticSearch?
This enables a higher resilience, but the projection needs to be correctly populated.

| jmap.version.default
| Optional string. Defaults to draft. Allowed values: draft, rfc-8621.
| Which version of the JMAP protocol should be served when none supplied in the Accept header.
Defaults to draft for legacy reasons (avoid breaking changes) but setting the value to
rfc-8621 allow compatibility with other third party apps.

| push.aggregation.window.duration
| Optional. Omitting this property leads to windowing being disables. James will then directly forward all StateChanges to the end user without attempting to buffer and aggregating them.
| If specified, James will delay stateChanges for that given amount of time and will attempt to aggregate subsequent state changes together before returning them to the client. Units: ms, s, min, h, d (default s)

|===

== Wire tapping

Enabling *TRACE* on `org.apache.james.jmap.wire` enables reactor-netty wiretap, logging of
all incoming and outgoing requests, outgoing requests. This will log also potentially sensible information
like authentication credentials.

== Generating a JWT key pair

The Distributed server enforces the use of RSA-SHA-256.

One can use OpenSSL to generate a JWT key pair :

    # private key
    openssl genrsa -out rs256-4096-private.rsa 4096
    # public key
    openssl rsa -in rs256-4096-private.rsa -pubout > rs256-4096-public.pem

The private key can be used to generate JWT tokens, for instance
using link:https://github.com/vandium-io/jwtgen[jwtgen]:

    jwtgen -a RS256 -p rs256-4096-private.rsa 4096 -c "sub=bob@domain.tld" -e 3600 -V

This token can then be passed as `Bearer` of the `Authorization` header :

    curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:80/jmap -d '...'

The public key can be referenced as `jwt.publickeypem.url` of the `jmap.properties` configuration file.

== Annotated specification

The [annotated documentation](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/protocols/jmap-rfc-8621/doc/specs/spec)
presents the limits of the JMAP RFC-8621 implementation part of the Apache James project. We furthermore implement
[JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) Subprotocol for WebSocket](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8887).

Some methods / types are not yet implemented, some implementations are naive, and the PUSH is not supported yet.

Users are invited to read these limitations before using actively the JMAP RFC-8621 implementation, and should ensure their
client applications only uses supported operations.

Contributions enhancing support are furthermore welcomed.

The list of tested JMAP clients are:

 - [OpenPaaS](https://open-paas.org/) is actively using the draft version of the JMAP implementation. Migration to
 RFC-8621 is planned.
 - Experiments had been run on top of [LTT.RS](https://github.com/iNPUTmice/lttrs-android). Version in the Accept
 headers needs to be explicitly set to `rfc-8621`. [Read more](https://github.com/linagora/james-project/pull/4089).
