src/site/markdown/server/manage-cli.md, before:

Manage James via the Command Line
=================================

With any wiring, James is packed with a command line client.

To use it enter, for Spring distrubution:

```
./bin/james-cli.sh -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 COMMAND
```

And for Guice distributions:

```
java -jar /root/james-cli.jar -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 COMMAND
```

Guice in docker embeds a script helper:

```
docker exec -ti james james-cli COMMAND
```

The following document will explain you which are the available options for **COMMAND**.

Note: the command line before **COMMAND** will be documente as *{cli}*.

## Navigation menu

 - [Manage Domains](#Manage_Domains)
 - [Managing users](#Managing_users)
 - [Managing mailboxes](#Managing_mailboxes)
 - [Adding a message in a mailbox](#Adding_a_message_in_a_mailbox)
 - [Managing mappings](#Managing_mappings)
 - [Manage quotas](#Manage_quotas)
 - [Re-indexing](#Re-indexing)
 - [Sieve scripts quota](#Sieve_scripts_quota)
 - [Switching of mailbox implementation](#Switching_of_mailbox_implementation)

## Manage Domains

Domains represent the domain names handled by your server.

You can add a domain:

```
{cli} AddDomain domain.tld
```

You can remove a domain:

```
{cli} RemoveDomain domain.tld
```

(Note: associated users are not removed automatically)

Check if a domain is handled:

```
{cli} ContainsDomain domain.tld
```

And list your domains:

```
{cli} ListDomains
```

## Managing users

Note: the following commands are explained with virtual hosting turned on.

Users are accounts on the mail server. James can maintain mailboxes for them.

You can add a user:

```
{cli} AddUser user@domain.tld password
```

Note: the domain used should have been previously created.

You can delete a user:

```
{cli} RemoveUser user@domain.tld
```

(Note: associated mailboxes are not removed automatically)

And change a user password:

```
{cli} SetPassword user@domain.tld password
```

Note: All these write operations can not be performed on LDAP backend, as the implementation is read-only.

Finally, you can list users:

```
{cli} ListUsers
```

### Virtual hosting

James supports virtualhosting.

 - If set to true in the configuration, then the username is the full mail address.

The domains then become a part of the user.

*usera@domaina.com and* *usera@domainb.com* on a mail server with *domaina.com* and *domainb.com* configured are mail addresses that belongs to different users.

 - If set to false in the configurations, then the username is the mail address local part.

It means that a user  is automatically created for all the domains configured on your server.

*usera@domaina.com and* *usera@domainb.com* on a mail server with *domaina.com* and *domainb.com* configured are mail addresses that belongs to the same users.

Here are some sample commands for managing users when virtual hosting is turned off:

```
{cli} AddUser user password
{cli} RemoveUser user
{cli} SetPassword user password
```

## Managing mailboxes

An administrator can perform some basic operation on user mailboxes.

Note on mailbox formatting: mailboxes are composed of three parts.

 - The namespace, indicating what kind of mailbox it is. (Shared or not?). The value for users mailboxes is #private . Note that for now no other values are supported as James do not support shared mailboxes.
 - The username as stated above, depending on the virtual hosting value.
 - And finally mailbox name. Be aware that '.' serves as mailbox hierarchy delimiter.

An administrator can delete all of the mailboxes of a user, which is not done automatically when removing a user (to avoid data loss):

```
{cli} DeleteUserMailboxes user@domain.tld
```

He can delete a specific mailbox:

```
{cli} DeleteMailbox #private user@domain.tld INBOX.toBeDeleted
```

He can list the mailboxes of a specific user:

```
{cli} ListUserMailboxes user@domain.tld
```

And finally can create a specific mailbox:

```
{cli} CreateMailbox #private user@domain.tld INBOX.newFolder
```

## Adding a message in a mailbox

The administrator can use the CLI to add a message in a mailbox. this can be done using:

```
{cli} ImportEml #private user@domain.tld INBOX.newFolder /full/path/to/file.eml
```

This command will add a message having the content specified in file.eml (that needs to be at the EML format). It will get added
in the INBOX.subFolder mailbox belonging to user user@domain.tld.

## Managing mappings

A mapping is a recipient rewritting rule. There is several kind of rewritting rules:

 - address mapping: rewrite a given mail address into an other one.
 - regex mapping.

You can manage address mapping like (redirects email from fromUser@fromDomain.tld to redirected@domain.new, then deletes the mapping):

```
{cli} AddAddressMapping fromUser fromDomain.tld redirected@domain.new
{cli} RemoveAddressMapping fromUser fromDomain.tld redirected@domain.new
```

You can manage regex mapping like this:

```
{cli} AddRegexMapping redirected domain.new .*@domain.tld
{cli} RemoveRegexMapping redirected domain.new .*@domain.tld
```

You can view mapping for a mail address:

```
{cli} ListUserDomainMappings user domain.tld
```

And all mappings defined on the server:

```
{cli} ListMappings
```

## Manage quotas

Quotas are limitations on a group of mailboxes. They can limit the **size** or the **messages count** in a group of mailboxes.

James groups by defaults mailboxes by user (but it can be overridden), and labels each group with a quotaroot.

To get the quotaroot a given mailbox belongs to:

```
{cli} GetQuotaroot #private user@domain.tld INBOX
```

Then you can get the specific quotaroot limitations.

For the number of messages:

```
{cli} GetMessageCountQuota quotaroot
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} GetStorageQuota quotaroot
```

You see the maximum allowed for these values:

For the number of messages:

```
{cli} GetMaxMessageCountQuota quotaroot
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} GetMaxStorageQuota quotaroot
```

You can also specify maximum for these values.


For the number of messages:

```
{cli} SetMaxMessageCountQuota quotaroot value
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} SetMaxStorageQuota quotaroot value
```

With value being an integer. Please note the use of units for storage (K, M, G). For instance:


```
{cli} SetMaxStorageQuota someone@apache.org 4G
```

Moreover, James allows to specify global maximum values, at the server level. Note: syntax is similar to what was exposed previously.

```
{cli} SetGlobalMaxMessageCountQuota value
{cli} GetGlobalMaxMessageCountQuota
{cli} SetGlobalMaxStorageQuota value
{cli} GetGlobalMaxStorageQuota
```

## Re-indexing

James allow you to index your emails in a search engine, for making search faster. Both OpenSearch and Lucene are supported.

For some reasons, you might want to re-index your mails (inconsistencies across datastore, migrations).

To re-index all mails of all mailboxes of all users, type:

```
{cli} ReindexAll
```

And for a precise mailbox:

```
{cli} Reindex #private user@domain.tld INBOX
```

## Sieve scripts quota

James implements Sieve (RFC-5228). Your users can then writte scripts and upload them to the server. Thus they can
define the desired behavior upon email reception. James defines a Sieve mailet for this, and stores Sieve scripts. You
can update them via the ManageSieve protocol, or via the ManageSieveMailet.

You can define quota for the total size of Sieve scripts, per user.

Syntax is similar to what was exposed for quotas. For defaults values:

```
{cli} GetSieveQuota
{cli} SetSieveQuota value
{cli} RemoveSieveQuota
```

And for specific user quotas:

```
{cli} GetSieveUserQuota user@domain.tld
{cli} SetSieveQuota user@domain.tld value
{cli} RemoveSieveUserQuota user@domain.tld
```

## Switching of mailbox implementation

Migration is experimental for now. You would need to customize **Spring** configuration to add a new mailbox manager with a different bean name.

You can then copy data accross mailbox managers using:

```
{cli} CopyMailbox srcBean dstBean
```

You will then need to reconfigure James to use the new mailbox manager.

Commit message:

JAMES-2148 create domain mappings via the CLI (#1587)

src/site/markdown/server/manage-cli.md, after:

Manage James via the Command Line
=================================

With any wiring, James is packed with a command line client.

To use it enter, for Spring distrubution:

```
./bin/james-cli.sh -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 COMMAND
```

And for Guice distributions:

```
java -jar /root/james-cli.jar -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 COMMAND
```

Guice in docker embeds a script helper:

```
docker exec -ti james james-cli COMMAND
```

The following document will explain you which are the available options for **COMMAND**.

Note: the command line before **COMMAND** will be documente as *{cli}*.

## Navigation menu

 - [Manage Domains](#Manage_Domains)
 - [Managing users](#Managing_users)
 - [Managing mailboxes](#Managing_mailboxes)
 - [Adding a message in a mailbox](#Adding_a_message_in_a_mailbox)
 - [Managing mappings](#Managing_mappings)
 - [Manage quotas](#Manage_quotas)
 - [Re-indexing](#Re-indexing)
 - [Sieve scripts quota](#Sieve_scripts_quota)
 - [Switching of mailbox implementation](#Switching_of_mailbox_implementation)

## Manage Domains

Domains represent the domain names handled by your server.

You can add a domain:

```
{cli} AddDomain domain.tld
```

You can remove a domain:

```
{cli} RemoveDomain domain.tld
```

(Note: associated users are not removed automatically)

Check if a domain is handled:

```
{cli} ContainsDomain domain.tld
```

And list your domains:

```
{cli} ListDomains
```

## Managing users

Note: the following commands are explained with virtual hosting turned on.

Users are accounts on the mail server. James can maintain mailboxes for them.

You can add a user:

```
{cli} AddUser user@domain.tld password
```

Note: the domain used should have been previously created.

You can delete a user:

```
{cli} RemoveUser user@domain.tld
```

(Note: associated mailboxes are not removed automatically)

And change a user password:

```
{cli} SetPassword user@domain.tld password
```

Note: All these write operations can not be performed on LDAP backend, as the implementation is read-only.

Finally, you can list users:

```
{cli} ListUsers
```

### Virtual hosting

James supports virtualhosting.

 - If set to true in the configuration, then the username is the full mail address.

The domains then become a part of the user.

*usera@domaina.com and* *usera@domainb.com* on a mail server with *domaina.com* and *domainb.com* configured are mail addresses that belongs to different users.

 - If set to false in the configurations, then the username is the mail address local part.

It means that a user  is automatically created for all the domains configured on your server.

*usera@domaina.com and* *usera@domainb.com* on a mail server with *domaina.com* and *domainb.com* configured are mail addresses that belongs to the same users.

Here are some sample commands for managing users when virtual hosting is turned off:

```
{cli} AddUser user password
{cli} RemoveUser user
{cli} SetPassword user password
```

## Managing mailboxes

An administrator can perform some basic operation on user mailboxes.

Note on mailbox formatting: mailboxes are composed of three parts.

 - The namespace, indicating what kind of mailbox it is. (Shared or not?). The value for users mailboxes is #private . Note that for now no other values are supported as James do not support shared mailboxes.
 - The username as stated above, depending on the virtual hosting value.
 - And finally mailbox name. Be aware that '.' serves as mailbox hierarchy delimiter.

An administrator can delete all of the mailboxes of a user, which is not done automatically when removing a user (to avoid data loss):

```
{cli} DeleteUserMailboxes user@domain.tld
```

He can delete a specific mailbox:

```
{cli} DeleteMailbox #private user@domain.tld INBOX.toBeDeleted
```

He can list the mailboxes of a specific user:

```
{cli} ListUserMailboxes user@domain.tld
```

And finally can create a specific mailbox:

```
{cli} CreateMailbox #private user@domain.tld INBOX.newFolder
```

## Adding a message in a mailbox

The administrator can use the CLI to add a message in a mailbox. this can be done using:

```
{cli} ImportEml #private user@domain.tld INBOX.newFolder /full/path/to/file.eml
```

This command will add a message having the content specified in file.eml (that needs to be at the EML format). It will get added
in the INBOX.subFolder mailbox belonging to user user@domain.tld.

## Managing mappings

A mapping is a recipient rewriting rule. There is several kind of rewriting rules:

 - address mapping: rewrite a given mail address into another one.
 - domain mapping: rewrite a given domain into an alternate one.
 - regex mapping.

You can manage address mapping like (redirects email from fromUser@fromDomain.tld to redirected@domain.new, then deletes the mapping):

```
{cli} AddAddressMapping fromUser fromDomain.tld redirected@domain.new
{cli} RemoveAddressMapping fromUser fromDomain.tld redirected@domain.new
```

You can manage domain mapping like (redirects a domain, which means any@domain.tld will be rewritten as any@domain.new, then deletes the mapping):

```
{cli} AddDomainMapping domain.tld domain.new
{cli} RemoveDomainMapping domain.tld domain.new
```

You can view mapping for a domain:

```
{cli} ListDomainMappings domain.tld
```

You can manage regex mapping like this:

```
{cli} AddRegexMapping redirected domain.new .*@domain.tld
{cli} RemoveRegexMapping redirected domain.new .*@domain.tld
```

You can view mapping for a mail address:

```
{cli} ListUserDomainMappings user domain.tld
```

And all mappings defined on the server:

```
{cli} ListMappings
```

## Manage quotas

Quotas are limitations on a group of mailboxes. They can limit the **size** or the **messages count** in a group of mailboxes.

James groups by defaults mailboxes by user (but it can be overridden), and labels each group with a quotaroot.

To get the quotaroot a given mailbox belongs to:

```
{cli} GetQuotaroot #private user@domain.tld INBOX
```

Then you can get the specific quotaroot limitations.

For the number of messages:

```
{cli} GetMessageCountQuota quotaroot
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} GetStorageQuota quotaroot
```

You see the maximum allowed for these values:

For the number of messages:

```
{cli} GetMaxMessageCountQuota quotaroot
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} GetMaxStorageQuota quotaroot
```

You can also specify maximum for these values.


For the number of messages:

```
{cli} SetMaxMessageCountQuota quotaroot value
```

And for the storage space available:

```
{cli} SetMaxStorageQuota quotaroot value
```

With value being an integer. Please note the use of units for storage (K, M, G). For instance:


```
{cli} SetMaxStorageQuota someone@apache.org 4G
```

Moreover, James allows to specify global maximum values, at the server level. Note: syntax is similar to what was exposed previously.

```
{cli} SetGlobalMaxMessageCountQuota value
{cli} GetGlobalMaxMessageCountQuota
{cli} SetGlobalMaxStorageQuota value
{cli} GetGlobalMaxStorageQuota
```

## Re-indexing

James allow you to index your emails in a search engine, for making search faster. Both OpenSearch and Lucene are supported.

For some reasons, you might want to re-index your mails (inconsistencies across datastore, migrations).

To re-index all mails of all mailboxes of all users, type:

```
{cli} ReindexAll
```

And for a precise mailbox:

```
{cli} Reindex #private user@domain.tld INBOX
```

## Sieve scripts quota

James implements Sieve (RFC-5228). Your users can then writte scripts and upload them to the server. Thus they can
define the desired behavior upon email reception. James defines a Sieve mailet for this, and stores Sieve scripts. You
can update them via the ManageSieve protocol, or via the ManageSieveMailet.

You can define quota for the total size of Sieve scripts, per user.

Syntax is similar to what was exposed for quotas. For defaults values:

```
{cli} GetSieveQuota
{cli} SetSieveQuota value
{cli} RemoveSieveQuota
```

And for specific user quotas:

```
{cli} GetSieveUserQuota user@domain.tld
{cli} SetSieveQuota user@domain.tld value
{cli} RemoveSieveUserQuota user@domain.tld
```

## Switching of mailbox implementation

Migration is experimental for now. You would need to customize **Spring** configuration to add a new mailbox manager with a different bean name.

You can then copy data accross mailbox managers using:

```
{cli} CopyMailbox srcBean dstBean
```

You will then need to reconfigure James to use the new mailbox manager.
