server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run/k8s-values.adoc, before:

== Values for Helm James template

Helm James has many visible values to configure before being able to use
it correctly. Values are injected into the deployment template as
environment variables. An example with default values can be found in
the `+values.yaml+` file.

This document presents a quick description of each value field.

=== DNS values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|emailDomain |mail.example.com |The domain name for your tenant’s email
addresses

|jmapUrl |jmap.example.com |The url for the ingress jmap endpoint

|adminUrl |admin.example.com |The url for the ingress admin endpoint

|smtpHostname |smtp.example.com |The SMTP Ehlo hostname
|===

=== James values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaJmapInstanceCount |1 |The number of pods we deploy for James
JMAP instance in the cluster

|replicaImapSmtpInstanceCount |1 |The number of pods we deploy for James
IMAP/SMTP instance in the cluster

|image |apache/james:distributed-3.8.1 |The James image used for
deployment (Cassandra - RabbitMQ - LDAP distributed James flavor)
|===

=== James environment values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description

|jamesCassandraKeyspace |sandbox_james |The keyspace used for Cassandra
James data

|jamesCassandraCacheKeyspace |sandbox_james_cache |The keyspace used for
the Cassandra cache

|jamesEsMailboxIndex |mailbox_v1 |The index used for mailbox in
OpenSearch. The default value should be enough, but in case you had
issues and needed to create a new index, this will allow you to point
James to it

|jamesEsClusterName |change-me |Name of the cluster

|jamesEsHostScheme |http |Only http or https are accepted

|jamesEsSslValidationStrategy |ignore |Choosing the SSL check strategy
when using https scheme: `+default+` (use the default SSL TrustStore of
the system), `+ignore+` (Ignore SSL Validation check (not recommended)),
`+override+` (override the SSL Context to use a custom TrustStore
containing ES server’s certificate)

|jamesEsHostNameVerifier |default |Configure OpenSearch rest client
to use host name verifier during SSL handshake: `+default+` (using the
default hostname verifier provided by apache http client),
`+accept_any_hostname+` (accept any host (not recommended))

|jamesRabbitHost |change-me |The host url for RabbitMQ used by James for
mail processing

|jamesMessageSize |25M |The default maximum size for each email is 25MB,
Must be a positive integer, optionally with a unit: B, K, M, G.

|jamesDkimSignSmtp |dkimselector |SMTP signature for DKIM, also called
DKIM Selector

|jamesDkimSignDomain |mail.example.com |Domain signature for DKIM

|cassandraReplicationFactor |3 |The replication factor for Cassandra
configuration

|jamesHELOMessage |change-me |The SMTP Ehlo message

|jvmOpts |-Xms4g -Xmx4g |Add the JVM_OPTIONS flag for the JVM resource
allocation when starting James

|jamesResources.limits.cpu |2000m |Limit of cpu allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.limits.memory |6Gi |Limit of memory allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.requests.cpu |1000m |Request of cpu allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.requests.memory |3Gi |Request of memory allowed to James
pod

|glowroot.enabled |true |Enabling or disabling Glowroot usage with
James. It’s better to disable it for prod environments

|ingress.enabled |false |Enabling or disabling Nginx Ingress. We are
using it to expose JMAP and attach our SSL certificates for
SMTP/IMAP/JMAP. Default is false

|ingress.ingressClassName |change-me |kubernetes.io/ingress.class is 
deprecated from Kubernetes v1.22+. Use ingressClassName instead for 
Kubernetes v1.18+

|james.tls.secretName |the-name-of-a-secret |The name of the secret
created separately contenting the SSL certificate for JMAP, IMAPS and
SMTPS
|===

=== Cassandra values

There is two ways to deploy Cassandra in our Helm packages, defined by
the `+deploy+` field.

==== as-pod

Cassandra can be deployed as pods in the cluster. Parameters for this
mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaCount |1 |The number of Cassandra pods
|namespace |change-me | Namespace of Cassandra deployment
|===

NOTE: Pod name must match template format: `cassandra-01.namespace:9042,cassandra-02.namespace:9042`

==== as-ref

Cassandra has been deployed in VMs and the nodes can be accessed through
their IP addresses. Parameters for this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|ips |1.2.3.4, 5.6.7.8, 9.10.11.12 |The list of Cassandra IP nodes.
|===

=== OpenSearch values

There is two ways to deploy OpenSearch in our Helm packages, defined
by the `+deploy+` field.

==== as-pod

OpenSearch has been deployed as pods in the cluster. Parameters for
this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaCount |1 |The number of OpenSearch pods

|namespace | change-me | Namespace of OpenSearch deployment
|===

NOTE: Pod name must match template format: `opensearch-01.namespace:9200,opensearch-02.namespace:9200`

==== as-ref

OpenSearch has been deployed in VMs and the nodes can be accessed
through their IP addresses. Parameters for this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|ips |1.2.3.4, 5.6.7.8, 9.10.11.12 |The list of OpenSearch IP nodes.
|===

Commit message:

Separated Admin Ingress from Jmap ingress
For James Helm Chart, the operator might want to expose Jmap but the Admin to public through Ingress.
Hence, added adminIngress option in values.yaml to use Admin and Jamp separately.

Also changed Nginx Ingress to Ingress for values.yaml documentation as it is not just for Nginx.

server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run/k8s-values.adoc, after:

== Values for Helm James template

Helm James has many visible values to configure before being able to use
it correctly. Values are injected into the deployment template as
environment variables. An example with default values can be found in
the `+values.yaml+` file.

This document presents a quick description of each value field.

=== DNS values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|emailDomain |mail.example.com |The domain name for your tenant’s email
addresses

|jmapUrl |jmap.example.com |The url for the ingress jmap endpoint

|adminUrl |admin.example.com |The url for the ingress admin endpoint

|smtpHostname |smtp.example.com |The SMTP Ehlo hostname
|===

=== James values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaJmapInstanceCount |1 |The number of pods we deploy for James
JMAP instance in the cluster

|replicaImapSmtpInstanceCount |1 |The number of pods we deploy for James
IMAP/SMTP instance in the cluster

|image |apache/james:distributed-3.8.1 |The James image used for
deployment (Cassandra - RabbitMQ - LDAP distributed James flavor)
|===

=== James environment values
[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description

|jamesCassandraKeyspace |sandbox_james |The keyspace used for Cassandra
James data

|jamesCassandraCacheKeyspace |sandbox_james_cache |The keyspace used for
the Cassandra cache

|jamesEsMailboxIndex |mailbox_v1 |The index used for mailbox in
OpenSearch. The default value should be enough, but in case you had
issues and needed to create a new index, this will allow you to point
James to it

|jamesEsClusterName |change-me |Name of the cluster

|jamesEsHostScheme |http |Only http or https are accepted

|jamesEsSslValidationStrategy |ignore |Choosing the SSL check strategy
when using https scheme: `+default+` (use the default SSL TrustStore of
the system), `+ignore+` (Ignore SSL Validation check (not recommended)),
`+override+` (override the SSL Context to use a custom TrustStore
containing ES server’s certificate)

|jamesEsHostNameVerifier |default |Configure OpenSearch rest client
to use host name verifier during SSL handshake: `+default+` (using the
default hostname verifier provided by apache http client),
`+accept_any_hostname+` (accept any host (not recommended))

|jamesRabbitHost |change-me |The host url for RabbitMQ used by James for
mail processing

|jamesMessageSize |25M |The default maximum size for each email is 25MB,
Must be a positive integer, optionally with a unit: B, K, M, G.

|jamesDkimSignSmtp |dkimselector |SMTP signature for DKIM, also called
DKIM Selector

|jamesDkimSignDomain |mail.example.com |Domain signature for DKIM

|cassandraReplicationFactor |3 |The replication factor for Cassandra
configuration

|jamesHELOMessage |change-me |The SMTP Ehlo message

|jvmOpts |-Xms4g -Xmx4g |Add the JVM_OPTIONS flag for the JVM resource
allocation when starting James

|jamesResources.limits.cpu |2000m |Limit of cpu allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.limits.memory |6Gi |Limit of memory allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.requests.cpu |1000m |Request of cpu allowed to James pod

|jamesResources.requests.memory |3Gi |Request of memory allowed to James
pod

|glowroot.enabled |true |Enabling or disabling Glowroot usage with
James. It’s better to disable it for prod environments

|ingress.enabled |false |Enabling or disabling Ingress. We are
using it to expose JMAP and attach our SSL certificates for
SMTP/IMAP/JMAP. Default is false

|ingress.ingressClassName |change-me |kubernetes.io/ingress.class is 
deprecated from Kubernetes v1.22+. Use ingressClassName instead for 
Kubernetes v1.18+

|adminIngress.enabled |false |Enabling or disabling Ingress for Web Admin.

|adminIngress.ingressClassName |change-me |kubernetes.io/ingress.class is 
deprecated from Kubernetes v1.22+. Use ingressClassName instead for 
Kubernetes v1.18+

|james.tls.secretName |the-name-of-a-secret |The name of the secret
created separately contenting the SSL certificate for JMAP, IMAPS and
SMTPS
|===

=== Cassandra values

There is two ways to deploy Cassandra in our Helm packages, defined by
the `+deploy+` field.

==== as-pod

Cassandra can be deployed as pods in the cluster. Parameters for this
mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaCount |1 |The number of Cassandra pods
|namespace |change-me | Namespace of Cassandra deployment
|===

NOTE: Pod name must match template format: `cassandra-01.namespace:9042,cassandra-02.namespace:9042`

==== as-ref

Cassandra has been deployed in VMs and the nodes can be accessed through
their IP addresses. Parameters for this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|ips |1.2.3.4, 5.6.7.8, 9.10.11.12 |The list of Cassandra IP nodes.
|===

=== OpenSearch values

There is two ways to deploy OpenSearch in our Helm packages, defined
by the `+deploy+` field.

==== as-pod

OpenSearch has been deployed as pods in the cluster. Parameters for
this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|replicaCount |1 |The number of OpenSearch pods

|namespace | change-me | Namespace of OpenSearch deployment
|===

NOTE: Pod name must match template format: `opensearch-01.namespace:9200,opensearch-02.namespace:9200`

==== as-ref

OpenSearch has been deployed in VMs and the nodes can be accessed
through their IP addresses. Parameters for this mode are:

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Default value |Description
|ips |1.2.3.4, 5.6.7.8, 9.10.11.12 |The list of OpenSearch IP nodes.
|===
