server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run/run-docker.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Run with docker
:navtitle: Run with docker

== Running via docker-compose


Requirements: docker & docker-compose installed.

When you try James this way, you will use the most current state of James.
It will be configured to run with Cassandra & OpenSearch.
All those three components will be started with a single command.

You can retrieve the docker-compose file : ( docker-compose file and james image name should be changed) 

    $ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/james-project/master/server/apps/distributed-app/docker-compose.yml
   

Then, you just have to start the services:

    $ docker-compose up -d

Wait a few seconds in order to have all those services start up. You will see the following log when James is available:
james           | Started : true

A default domain, james.local, has been created. You can see this by running:

    $ docker exec james james-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 listdomains

James will respond to IMAP port 143 and SMTP port 25.
You have to create users before playing with james. You may also want to create other domains.
Follow the 'Useful commands' section for more information about James CLI.

== Run with docker

=== Requirements

Compile the whole project:

    mvn clean install -DskipTests -T 4

Then load the distributed server docker image:

    docker load -i server/apps/distributed-app/target/jib-image.tar

Alternatively we provide convenience distribution for the latest release:

    docker pull apache/james:distributed-3.7.4

=== Running
Firstly, create your own user network on Docker for the James environment:

    $ docker network create --driver bridge james

You need a running *cassandra* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=cassandra cassandra:3.11.10

You need a running *rabbitmq* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.9.18-management

You need a running *Zenko Cloudserver* objectstorage in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --env 'REMOTE_MANAGEMENT_DISABLE=1' --env 'SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=accessKey1' --env 'SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secretKey1' --name=s3 zenko/cloudserver:8.2.6

You need a running *OpenSearch* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

$ docker run -d --network james -p 9200:9200 --name=opensearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' opensearchproject/opensearch:2.1.0

If you want to use all the JMAP search capabilities, you may also need to start Tika container which connects to *james* network:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=tika apache/tika:1.28.2

You can find more explanation on the need of Tika in this xref:configure/tika.adoc[page].

We need to provide the key we will use for TLS. For obvious reasons, this is not provided in this git.

Copy your TLS keys to the current folder or generate it using the following command. The password must be `james72laBalle` to match default configuration.

    $ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore keystore

To run this container :

    $ docker run --network james --hostname HOSTNAME -p "25:25" -p 80:80 -p "110:110" -p "143:143" -p "465:465" -p "587:587" -p "993:993" -p "127.0.0.1:8000:8000" --name james_run
        -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore -t apache/james:distributed-3.7.4

Where :

- HOSTNAME: is the hostname you want to give to your James container. This DNS entry will be used to send mail to your James server.

Webadmin port binding is restricted to loopback as users are not authenticated by default on webadmin server. Thus you should avoid exposing it in production.
Note that the above example assumes `127.0.0.1` is your loopback interface for convenience but you should change it if this is not the case on your machine.

If you want to pass additional options to the underlying java command, you can configure a _JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS_ env variable, for example add:

    --env "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-Xms256m -Xmx2048m"

To have log file accessible on a volume, add *-v  $PWD/logs:/logs* option to the above command line, where *$PWD/logs* is your local directory to put files in.

=== Instrumentation
You can use link:https://glowroot.org/[Glowroot] to instrumentalize James. It is packaged as part of the docker distribution to easily enable valuable performances insights.
Disabled by default, its java agent can easily be enabled:

    --env "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/root/glowroot.jar" -p "4000:4000"

By default, the Glowroot UI is accessible from every machines in the network as defined in the _destination/admin.json_.
Which you could configure before building the image, if you want to restrict its accessibility to localhost for example.
See the https://github.com/glowroot/glowroot/wiki/Agent-Installation-(with-Embedded-Collector)#user-content-optional-post-installation-steps[Glowroot post installation steps]  for more details.

Or by mapping the 4000 port to the IP of the desired network interface, for example `-p 127.0.0.1:4000:4000`.


=== Handling attachment indexing

You can handle attachment text extraction before indexing in OpenSearch. This makes attachments searchable. To enable this:

Run tika connect to *james* network:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name tika apache/tika:1.28.2

Run James:

    $ docker run --network james --hostname HOSTNAME -p "25:25" -p 80:80 -p "110:110" -p "143:143" -p "465:465" -p "587:587" -p "993:993" -p "127.0.0.1:8000:8000"
        --name james_run -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore -t apache/james:distributed-latest

Commit message:

[DOC] Antora documentation should rely on --generate-keystore (#1556)
This ease the installation process

server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run/run-docker.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Run with docker
:navtitle: Run with docker

== Running via docker-compose


Requirements: docker & docker-compose installed.

When you try James this way, you will use the most current state of James.
It will be configured to run with Cassandra & OpenSearch.
All those three components will be started with a single command.

You can retrieve the docker-compose file : ( docker-compose file and james image name should be changed) 

    $ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/james-project/master/server/apps/distributed-app/docker-compose.yml
   

Then, you just have to start the services:

    $ docker-compose up -d

Wait a few seconds in order to have all those services start up. You will see the following log when James is available:
james           | Started : true

A default domain, james.local, has been created. You can see this by running:

    $ docker exec james james-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9999 listdomains

James will respond to IMAP port 143 and SMTP port 25.
You have to create users before playing with james. You may also want to create other domains.
Follow the 'Useful commands' section for more information about James CLI.

== Run with docker

=== Requirements

Compile the whole project:

    mvn clean install -DskipTests -T 4

Then load the distributed server docker image:

    docker load -i server/apps/distributed-app/target/jib-image.tar

Alternatively we provide convenience distribution for the latest release:

    docker pull apache/james:distributed-3.7.4

=== Running
Firstly, create your own user network on Docker for the James environment:

    $ docker network create --driver bridge james

You need a running *cassandra* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=cassandra cassandra:3.11.10

You need a running *rabbitmq* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.9.18-management

You need a running *Zenko Cloudserver* objectstorage in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

    $ docker run -d --network james --env 'REMOTE_MANAGEMENT_DISABLE=1' --env 'SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=accessKey1' --env 'SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secretKey1' --name=s3 zenko/cloudserver:8.2.6

You need a running *OpenSearch* in docker which connects to *james* network. To achieve this run:

$ docker run -d --network james -p 9200:9200 --name=opensearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' opensearchproject/opensearch:2.1.0

If you want to use all the JMAP search capabilities, you may also need to start Tika container which connects to *james* network:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name=tika apache/tika:1.28.2

You can find more explanation on the need of Tika in this xref:configure/tika.adoc[page].

To run this container :

    $ docker run --network james --hostname HOSTNAME -p "25:25" -p 80:80 -p "110:110" -p "143:143" -p "465:465" -p "587:587" -p "993:993" -p "127.0.0.1:8000:8000" --name james_run
        -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore -t apache/james:distributed-3.7.4 --generate-keystore

Where :

- HOSTNAME: is the hostname you want to give to your James container. This DNS entry will be used to send mail to your James server.

Webadmin port binding is restricted to loopback as users are not authenticated by default on webadmin server. Thus you should avoid exposing it in production.
Note that the above example assumes `127.0.0.1` is your loopback interface for convenience but you should change it if this is not the case on your machine.

If you want to pass additional options to the underlying java command, you can configure a _JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS_ env variable, for example add:

    --env "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-Xms256m -Xmx2048m"

To have log file accessible on a volume, add *-v  $PWD/logs:/logs* option to the above command line, where *$PWD/logs* is your local directory to put files in.

=== Specific keystore


Alternatively, you can also generate a keystore in your conf folder with the
following command, and drop `--generate-keystore` option:


[source,bash]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

=== Instrumentation
You can use link:https://glowroot.org/[Glowroot] to instrumentalize James. It is packaged as part of the docker distribution to easily enable valuable performances insights.
Disabled by default, its java agent can easily be enabled:

    --env "JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/root/glowroot.jar" -p "4000:4000"

By default, the Glowroot UI is accessible from every machines in the network as defined in the _destination/admin.json_.
Which you could configure before building the image, if you want to restrict its accessibility to localhost for example.
See the https://github.com/glowroot/glowroot/wiki/Agent-Installation-(with-Embedded-Collector)#user-content-optional-post-installation-steps[Glowroot post installation steps]  for more details.

Or by mapping the 4000 port to the IP of the desired network interface, for example `-p 127.0.0.1:4000:4000`.


=== Handling attachment indexing

You can handle attachment text extraction before indexing in OpenSearch. This makes attachments searchable. To enable this:

Run tika connect to *james* network:

    $ docker run -d --network james --name tika apache/tika:1.28.2

Run James:

    $ docker run --network james --hostname HOSTNAME -p "25:25" -p 80:80 -p "110:110" -p "143:143" -p "465:465" -p "587:587" -p "993:993" -p "127.0.0.1:8000:8000"
        --name james_run -v $PWD/keystore:/root/conf/keystore -t apache/james:distributed-latest
