docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/run.adoc, before:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Run
:navtitle: Run

== Building

=== Requirements

* Java 11 SDK
* Docker ∕ ElasticSearch 6.3.2, RabbitMQ Management 3.3.7, Swift
ObjectStorage 2.15.1 and Cassandra 3.11.3
* Maven 3

=== Building the artifacts

An usual compilation using maven will produce two artifacts into
server/container/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-guice/target directory:

* james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.jar
* james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.lib

You can for example run in the base of
https://github.com/apache/james-project[this git repository]:

....
mvn clean install
....

== Running

=== Requirements

* Cassandra 3.11.3
* ElasticSearch 6.3.2
* RabbitMQ-Management 3.8.1
* Swift ObjectStorage 2.15.1 or Scality S3 server or AWS S3

=== James Launch

To run james, you have to create a directory containing required
configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working
directory that is called *conf*. You can get a sample directory for
configuration from
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf].
You might need to adapt it to your needs.

You also need to generate a keystore in your conf folder with the
following command:

[source,bash]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

You need to have a Cassandra, ElasticSearch and RabbitMQ instance
running. You can either install the servers or launch them via docker:

[source,bash]
----
$ docker run -d -p 9042:9042 --name=cassandra cassandra:3.11.3
$ docker run -d -p 9200:9200 --name=elasticsearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:6.3.2
$ docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.8.1-management
$ docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -p 8080:8080 -p 35357:35357 --name=swift linagora/openstack-keystone-swift:pike
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -jar target/james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.jar
----

==== Using AWS S3 of Scality S3 server

In order to use AWS S3 or a compatible implementation,
`blobstore.propeties` has to be filled with:

....
objectstorage.provider=aws-s3
objectstorage.namespace=james
objectstorage.s3.endPoint=http://scality:8080/
objectstorage.s3.accessKeyId=accessKey1
objectstorage.s3.secretKey=verySecretKey1
....

To use Scality S3 server you have to launch it instead of swift
container:

....
$ docker run -d -p 8080:8000 --name=s3 scality/s3server:6018536a
....

More information about available options
https://hub.docker.com/r/scality/s3server[here].

== Guice-cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap

You can follow the same guide to build and run
guice-cassandra-rabbitmq-swift-ldap artifact, except that:

 * The *jar* and *libs* needs to be retrieve from
server/container/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap-guice/target after
compilation
 * The sample configuration can be found in
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf]
 * You need to configure James to be connecting to a running LDAP server.
The configuration file is located in
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf/usersrepository.xml[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf/usersrepository.xml]
 * You can then launch James via this command:

[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -jar target/james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap-guice.jar
----

Commit message:

JAMES-3028 Drop Swift from configuration and documentation

docs/modules/servers/pages/distributed/run.adoc, after:

= Distributed James Server &mdash; Run
:navtitle: Run

== Building

=== Requirements

* Java 11 SDK
* Docker ∕ ElasticSearch 6.3.2, RabbitMQ Management 3.3.7, S3 compatible
ObjectStorage and Cassandra 3.11.3
* Maven 3

=== Building the artifacts

An usual compilation using maven will produce two artifacts into
server/container/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-guice/target directory:

* james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.jar
* james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.lib

You can for example run in the base of
https://github.com/apache/james-project[this git repository]:

....
mvn clean install
....

== Running

=== Requirements

* Cassandra 3.11.3
* ElasticSearch 6.3.2
* RabbitMQ-Management 3.8.1
* Swift ObjectStorage 2.15.1 or Zenko Cloudserver or AWS S3

=== James Launch

To run james, you have to create a directory containing required
configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working
directory that is called *conf*. You can get a sample directory for
configuration from
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq/destination/conf].
You might need to adapt it to your needs.

You also need to generate a keystore in your conf folder with the
following command:

[source,bash]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

You need to have a Cassandra, ElasticSearch, S3 and RabbitMQ instance
running. You can either install the servers or launch them via docker:

[source,bash]
----
$ docker run -d -p 9042:9042 --name=cassandra cassandra:3.11.3
$ docker run -d -p 9200:9200 --name=elasticsearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:6.3.2
$ docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.8.1-management
$ docker run -d -p 8080:8000 --env 'REMOTE_MANAGEMENT_DISABLE=1' --env 'SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=accessKey1' --env 'SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secretKey1' --name=s3 zenko/cloudserver:8.2.6
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -jar target/james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-guice.jar
----

==== Using AWS S3 of Zenko Cloudserver

By default, James is configured with [Zenko Cloudserver](https://hub.docker.com/r/zenko/cloudserver) which is compatible with AWS S3, in `blobstore.propeties` as such:

[source,bash]
----
implementation=s3
objectstorage.namespace=james
objectstorage.s3.endPoint=http://s3.docker.test:8000/
objectstorage.s3.region=eu-west-1
objectstorage.s3.accessKeyId=accessKey1
objectstorage.s3.secretKey=secretKey1
----

== Guice-cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap

You can follow the same guide to build and run
guice-cassandra-rabbitmq-s3-ldap artifact, except that:

 * The *jar* and *libs* needs to be retrieve from
server/container/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap-guice/target after
compilation
 * The sample configuration can be found in
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf]
 * You need to configure James to be connecting to a running LDAP server.
The configuration file is located in
https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf/usersrepository.xml[dockerfiles/run/guice/cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap/destination/conf/usersrepository.xml]
 * You can then launch James via this command:

[source,bash]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -jar target/james-server-cassandra-rabbitmq-ldap-guice.jar
----
