server/apps/postgres-app/README.adoc, before:

= Guice-Postgres Server How-to

This server targets reactive James deployments with postgresql database.

== Requirements

* Java 11 SDK

=== With Postgresql only

Firstly, create your own user network on Docker for the James environment:

    $ docker network create --driver bridge james

Third party compulsory dependencies:

* Postgresql 16.0

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 5432:5432 --name=postgres --env 'POSTGRES_DB=james' --env 'POSTGRES_USER=james' --env 'POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret1' postgres:16.0
----

=== Distributed version

Here you have the choice of using other third party softwares to handle object data storage, search indexing and event bus.

For now, dependencies supported are:

* OpenSearch 2.8.0

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 9200:9200 --name=opensearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' opensearchproject/opensearch:2.8.0
----

* Zenko Cloudserver or AWS S3

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james --env 'REMOTE_MANAGEMENT_DISABLE=1' --env 'SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=accessKey1' --env 'SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secretKey1' --name=s3 registry.scality.com/cloudserver/cloudserver:8.7.25
----

* RabbitMQ 3.12.1

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.12.1-management
----

== Running manually

=== Running with Postgresql only

To run James manually, you have to create a directory containing required configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working directory that is called
**conf**. A [sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration)
is provided with some default values you may need to replace. You will need to update its content to match your needs.

Also you might need to add the files like in the
[sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration-single)
to not have OpenSearch indexing enabled by default for the search.

You also need to generate a keystore with the following command:

[source]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml -jar james-server-postgres-app.jar
----

In the case of quick start James without manually creating a keystore (e.g. for development), just input the command argument
`--generate-keystore` when running, James will auto-generate keystore file with the default setting that is declared in
`jmap.properties` (tls.keystoreURL, tls.secret).

[source]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 -jar james-server-postgres-app.jar --generate-keystore
----

Note that binding ports below 1024 requires administrative rights.

=== Running distributed

If you want to use the distributed version of James Postgres app, you will need to add configuration in the **conf** folder like in the
[sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration-distributed).

Then you need to generate the keystore, rebuild the application jar and run it like above.

== Docker compose

To import the image locally:

[source]
----
docker image load -i target/jib-image.tar
----

=== With Postgresql only

We have a docker compose for running James Postgresql app alongside Postgresql. To run it, simply type:

....
docker compose up -d
....

=== Distributed

We also have a distributed version of the James postgresql app with:

- OpenSearch as a search indexer
- S3 as the object storage
- RabbitMQ as the event bus

To run it, simply type:

....
docker compose -f docker-compose-distributed.yml up -d
....

== Administration Operations
=== Clean up data

To clean up some specific data, that will never be used again after a long time, you can execute the SQL queries `clean_up.sql`.
The never used data are:
- mailbox_change
- email_change
- vacation_notification_registry

## Development

### How to track the stats of the statement execution

Using the [`pg_stat_statements` extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html), you can track the stats of the statement execution. To install it, you can execute the following SQL query:

```sql
create extension if not exists pg_stat_statements;
alter system set shared_preload_libraries='pg_stat_statements';

-- restart postgres
-- optional
alter system set pg_stat_statements.max = 100000;
alter system set pg_stat_statements.track = 'all';
```

Then you can query the stats of the statement execution by executing the following SQL query:

```sql
select query, mean_exec_time, total_exec_time, calls from pg_stat_statements order by total_exec_time desc;
```

Commit message:

JAMES-2586 Document jvm option to prevent reactor R2dbc error (queue limit is exceeded)

server/apps/postgres-app/README.adoc, after:

= Guice-Postgres Server How-to

This server targets reactive James deployments with postgresql database.

== Requirements

* Java 11 SDK

=== With Postgresql only

Firstly, create your own user network on Docker for the James environment:

    $ docker network create --driver bridge james

Third party compulsory dependencies:

* Postgresql 16.0

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 5432:5432 --name=postgres --env 'POSTGRES_DB=james' --env 'POSTGRES_USER=james' --env 'POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret1' postgres:16.0
----

=== Distributed version

Here you have the choice of using other third party softwares to handle object data storage, search indexing and event bus.

For now, dependencies supported are:

* OpenSearch 2.8.0

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 9200:9200 --name=opensearch --env 'discovery.type=single-node' opensearchproject/opensearch:2.8.0
----

* Zenko Cloudserver or AWS S3

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james --env 'REMOTE_MANAGEMENT_DISABLE=1' --env 'SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=accessKey1' --env 'SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secretKey1' --name=s3 registry.scality.com/cloudserver/cloudserver:8.7.25
----

* RabbitMQ 3.12.1

[source]
----
$ docker run -d --network james -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name=rabbitmq rabbitmq:3.12.1-management
----

== Running manually

=== Running with Postgresql only

To run James manually, you have to create a directory containing required configuration files.

James requires the configuration to be in a subfolder of working directory that is called
**conf**. A [sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration)
is provided with some default values you may need to replace. You will need to update its content to match your needs.

Also you might need to add the files like in the
[sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration-single)
to not have OpenSearch indexing enabled by default for the search.

You also need to generate a keystore with the following command:

[source]
----
$ keytool -genkey -alias james -keyalg RSA -keystore conf/keystore
----

Once everything is set up, you just have to run the jar with:

[source]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml -jar james-server-postgres-app.jar
----

In the case of quick start James without manually creating a keystore (e.g. for development), just input the command argument
`--generate-keystore` when running, James will auto-generate keystore file with the default setting that is declared in
`jmap.properties` (tls.keystoreURL, tls.secret).

[source]
----
$ java -Dworking.directory=. -Dlogback.configurationFile=conf/logback.xml -Djdk.tls.ephemeralDHKeySize=2048 -jar james-server-postgres-app.jar --generate-keystore
----

Note that binding ports below 1024 requires administrative rights.

=== Running distributed

If you want to use the distributed version of James Postgres app, you will need to add configuration in the **conf** folder like in the
[sample directory](https://github.com/apache/james-project/tree/master/server/apps/postgres-app/sample-configuration-distributed).

Then you need to generate the keystore, rebuild the application jar and run it like above.

== Docker compose

To import the image locally:

[source]
----
docker image load -i target/jib-image.tar
----

=== With Postgresql only

We have a docker compose for running James Postgresql app alongside Postgresql. To run it, simply type:

....
docker compose up -d
....

=== Distributed

We also have a distributed version of the James postgresql app with:

- OpenSearch as a search indexer
- S3 as the object storage
- RabbitMQ as the event bus

To run it, simply type:

....
docker compose -f docker-compose-distributed.yml up -d
....

== Administration Operations
=== Clean up data

To clean up some specific data, that will never be used again after a long time, you can execute the SQL queries `clean_up.sql`.
The never used data are:
- mailbox_change
- email_change
- vacation_notification_registry

=== Optimizing R2DBC Performance

==== Enhancing with reactor.bufferSize.small adjustment

Adjusting `reactor.bufferSize.small` JVM argument helps prevent R2DBC errors due to request queue limits.
The error "Cannot exchange messages because the request queue limit is exceeded".

It's acceptable to configure this argument in the jvm.properties file.

## Development

### How to track the stats of the statement execution

Using the [`pg_stat_statements` extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html), you can track the stats of the statement execution. To install it, you can execute the following SQL query:

```sql
create extension if not exists pg_stat_statements;
alter system set shared_preload_libraries='pg_stat_statements';

-- restart postgres
-- optional
alter system set pg_stat_statements.max = 100000;
alter system set pg_stat_statements.track = 'all';
```

Then you can query the stats of the statement execution by executing the following SQL query:

```sql
select query, mean_exec_time, total_exec_time, calls from pg_stat_statements order by total_exec_time desc;
```
